/lfs1/sudharao/PubMedCentral-Corpus/articles.I-N/Int_J_Speech_Lang_Pathol/Int_J_Speech_Lang_Pathol_2013_Oct_22_15(5)_492-502.nxml
('FOXO4', 'POU2F1', 'increases')
Among all genes with FDR values <0.005, there were 25 transcriptional factors: POU3F1, HEY1, TEAD1, POU4F2, VEZF1, KCNIP4, KLF12, E2F1, REST, FOXO4, NR4A1, HOXB8, POU2F1, HOXD9, HIC1, ZBTB16, TCF7, KLF11, IGFBP7, NFIC, PKNOX1, TWIST1, ING1, MEF2A and LITAF.

('PI3K', 'SHP2', 'binds')
Gab2 can stimulate both Erk and AKT signaling through its interactions with SHP2 and p85 subunit of PI3K respectively.

('Raf', 'MEK', 'adds_modification')
The Ras-Raf-MEK1/2-ERK1/2 pathway couples signal from the cell surface receptors to cytoplasmic substrates and transcription factors, which regulate gene expression [
The inhibition of renal cAMP production by treatment with a vasopressin V2 receptor antagonist or by increasing water intake to reduce plasma vasopressin decreases cell proliferation and ameliorates kidney cystogenesis with an associated reduction in B-Raf/MEK/ERK activity, leading to improved renal function in PCK rats [
ERK-1 activation is regulated by Raf-1 and MEK.
Raf-1 kinase and MEK regulate NF-kB activation: Gene expression of NF-
In order to understand the role of MEK, a down-stream signaling step of Raf-1 activation, in glucose-induced apoptosis of retinal endothelial cells, we investigated the effect of a specific and noncompetitive inhibitor of MEK phosphorylation, PD098059, on glucose-induced activation of NF-
Activation of Ras-Raf appears to result in the apoptosis of retinal capillary cells via Ras-Raf-MEK-ERK pathway.
Binding of Ras to Raf initiates activation of MEK that has divergent physiological and pathological responses.
Activated Raf phosphorylates MEK, which in turn, activates ERK (
ERK is a downstream component of the Raf-MEK activated signaling pathway.
Activation of MEK by Raf is followed by phosphorylation of ERK.
Glucose-induced activation of caspase-3 in the endothelial cells is inhibited by GW5074 suggesting that the Ras-Raf-MEK-ERK-mediated apoptosis of retinal capillary cells in high glucose conditions occurs via activation of caspase-3.
ERK is one of the main components of the Ras/Raf/MEK/ERK cascade, which mediates signal from cell surface receptors to transcription factors to regulate different gene expression.
To study the effect of chemotherapy on Raf/MEK/ERK pathway, the expression of ERK1/2 and phospho-ERK was compared in MCF-7 and MDA-MB-231 cells after DOX treatment.
HDIs mainly induce activation of both intrinsic and extrinsic apoptotic pathways of neoplastic cells by affecting protein stability, protein-protein interactions through interference with the function of cell cycle proteins such as p21, inhibition of signaling pathways implicated with Raf/MEK and activation of Reactive Oxygen Species
[
Raf1 is a MAP kinase kinase kinase, which phosphorylates the MAP kinase kinase MEK1/2.
Ras in turn activates Raf/MEK/ERk and PI3K/Akt kinase cascades that are involved in cell survival and proliferation.
Raf phosphorylates MAPKK (MEK) which in turn phosphorylates MAPK-ERK.
The best-studied mitogen activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway is the extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) cascade, which transmits signal from Raf (MAP kinase kinase kinase) to MEK (MAP kinase kinase) to ERK (MAP kinase).
IQGAP1 is a scaffold for MAPK signaling, binding to B-Raf, MEK1/2, and ERK1/2, and regulating their activity in response to epidermal growth factor (EGF) (reviewed in [
KRAS, a member of the rat sarcoma viral oncogene homolog (RAS) proto-oncogene family, is a key protein in the EGFR pathway, and plays an important role in the activation of various downstream proteins, including Raf, MEK and ERK 
Sorafenib is known to inhibit tumor cell proliferation and vascularization through activation of the receptor for tyrosine kinase, which in turn signals the Ras/Raf/mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase (MEK)/extracellular-signal-regulated kinase (ERK) cascade pathway.
Phorbol 13-myristate 12-acetate (PMA) is a known activator of protein kinase C (PKC) and the Raf/MEK/Erk pathway (
The mitogen-activated protein/extracellular signal-regulated kinase kinase (MEK) inhibitor blocks the Raf/MEK/extracellular signal-related kinase (ERK) pathway and is involved in proliferation and anti-apoptosis 
Initiation of DNA synthesis
was preceded by activation of Raf-1, MEK and
MAP kinases (Erk 1 and Erk2).
The two most important oncogenic signaling pathways are PI3K/AKT/mTOR and Ras/Raf/MEK/ERK.
Raf/MEK/ERK and PI3K/Akt pathway dysregulation is a common alteration responsible of tumor initiation and progression.
The overexpression or constitutive activation of receptors for growth factors, cytokines, and CKs potentiates the activation of Ras/Raf/MEK/ERK pathway also in pituitary adenoma [
The intracellular signaling pathway Raf/MEK/ERK and the extracellular receptors VEGFR and PDGFR have been implicated in the molecular pathogenesis of HCC (
Treatment with phloroglucinol significantly inhibited the expression of Ras, Raf, mitogen-activated protein kinase (MEK), extracellular-signal regulated kinase (ERK) phosphorylation, PI3K and Akt.
IGF-1R signaling involves activation of Ras, Raf, MEK and ERK (
Dose-dependent effect of phloroglucinol on the (A) protein and (B) mRNA expression of Ras, Raf, MEK and phospho-ERK in HT-29 colon cancer cells.
In melanoma, both the Ras/Raf/MEK/ERK (MAPK) and the PI3K/AKT (AKT) signalling pathways are constitutively activated through multiple mechanisms.
MEK1 and MEK2 display a similar structural organization, are closely related and they participate in the Ras/Raf/MEK/ERK signal transduction cascade (
This review pays attention on the clinical application of both Raf/MEK/ERK and PI3K/AKT/mTOR pathway inhibitors as novel treatment strategy for melanoma.
Raf/MEK/ERK and PI3K/AKT pathways and mechanism of action of their inhibitors in melanoma.
ERK kinase participates in the Ras/Raf/MEK/ERK signaling pathway, which is activated by mitogens and growth factors (
The class I phosphatidylinositol 3-phosphate kinase (PI3K)/AKT/Raptor-mTOR (mTORC1) signaling pathway and the Ras/Raf/MEK1/2/ERK1/2 pathway are two well-known signaling cascades involved in the regulation of autophagy (
The HBV-encoded protein, HBx, has been shown to promote cell proliferation by activating intracellular signaling transduction cascades, including the Ras/Raf/MEK/ERK, PI-3K-Akt/PKB, c-Jun 
The Rafs regulate cellular proliferation and differentiation through the Raf/MEK/ERK/MAPK signaling cascade, which is hyperactivated in ~30% of all cancers [
Our data implicate that the phosphorylation of HSP27 is probably induced by the pathway, including EGF/EGFR, Ras/Raf/MEK1/2/ERK1/2, as well as p38 MAPK.
Validation of Ras, Raf, ERK1/2, MEK1/2, p38MAPK and MAPKAPK2 by Western blotting analysis.
As a result, the activated Raf-1 stimulates the MEK1/2 and its cascade which then phosphorylate the MAPK protein ERK1/2.
The Ras/Raf/MEK/ERK system is definitely the best characterized MAPK pathway.
Activated HER-2 can transduce its signals via p52Shc (blocked by dominant-negative (DN) HER-2 cDNA transfection or an HER-2 inhibitor, AG879) to activate the downstream ERK/MAPK pathway (blocked by p52Shc Y317F mutant cDNA transfection or an MEK inhibitor, PD 98059 and U0126) through Ras/Raf mediation.
Sorafenib is an orally active multikinase inhibitor that blocks intracellular kinases in the Raf/MEK/ERK pathway that are involved in tumor proliferation, such as Raf-1, as well as those promoting angiogenesis, including VEGFR-2, VEGFR-3, FLT, PDGFR-
The Arabidopsis genome contains approximately 80 MAPKKK genes, which include 48 Raf kinases, 21 MEKK kinases and 11 ZIK kinases [
receptor pathway: To block Ras/Raf-1/MEKK1 signaling pathway through upregulation of 14-3-3 and calmodulin expression; to inhibit the PKC to activate and then catalyze the phosphorylation of threonine (Thr) residues on EGF receptor through upregulation of annexin A5.
Upon its activation, Raf transmits the signal further downstream to MEK1/2 (MAPK/ERK kinases 1 and 2), which are the second tier in the MAPK cascade.
MEK1/2 (also known as p45/p46) are activated by Raf-mediated phosphorylation at Ser218 and Ser222 (hMEK1) [
Whereas it constitutively associates with MEK, it interacts with C-Raf and ERK only upon growth factor stimulation [
IMP (impedes mitogenic signal propagation) inhibits signal propagation by disrupting KSR1 homo-oligomerization, which is necessary to join Raf with its substrate, since it seems that different complexes of KSR1-MEK, KSR1-C-Raf and KSR1-B-Raf exist in the cells (reviewed in [
It seems that the endocytosis of the activated receptors and their associated signaling complexes is crucial for maximal MAPK activation, and activated Ras, C-Raf, MEK1 and ERK1 can be found on endosomes [
For example, MORG1 binds to Raf, MEK and ERK, but also associates with the MP1 scaffold in the endosomes [
Flotillin-1, which is found in hetero-oligomers with flotillin-2, is a scaffolding protein for C-Raf, MAPK/ERK kinase 1 (MEK1) and extracellular signal-regulated kinase 2 (ERK2) independently of kinase suppressor of Ras (KSR1).
Upon EGFR activation, the downstream intracellular signaling cascades such as the PI3K/Akt, Raf/MEK/Erk, and STAT pathways are subsequently activated leading cell survival.
Results of the CFU assay clearly indicated that astaxanthin can actively improve proliferation of NPCs, which was associated with significant activation of PI3K and its downstream mediators, p-Rac, p-c-Raf, p-MEK, p-ERK, p-Akt, p-mTOR, and p-Stat3 in a time-dependent manner.
Here, we report that LicoA suppresses sUV-induced COX-2 expression by acting as a potent direct physical inhibitor of PI3K, MEK1, and B-Raf.
To confirm whether PI3K, MEK1, and Raf are plausible molecular targets of LicoA in the inhibition of cell proliferation, we next determined their effects on these proteins and C-Raf kinase activity 
Effect of LicoA on phosphoinositide 3-kinase PI3K, MEK1, B-Raf, and C-Raf kinase activity.
To determine whether LicoA exerts its effects by direct physical interaction with PI3K, MEK1, and B-Raf, we performed an immunoprecipitation assay using LicoA-conjugated Sepharose 4B beads.
LicoA directly binds with PI3K, MEK1, and B-Raf.
The crystal coordinates of PI3K (PDB entry 1E8X), B-Raf (PDB entry 3C4E), and MEK1 (PDB entry 1S9J) were used for the docking of licochalcone A.
All Rafs can bind and phosphorylate MEK, but B-Raf has the strongest activity towards MEK, while A-Raf and Raf-1 have MEK-independent functions [
All of these syndromes are associated with autosomal-dominant germline mutations within either the core components (Ras, B-Raf, Raf-1, MEK) of the Ras-ERK1/2 pathway or its modulators (NF1, SHP2, SOS, and Spred).
Multiple signaling pathways are involved in cell growth and apoptosis, including the Ras/Raf/MEK/ERK1/2 signaling pathway, which is central for transporting the complex signals received by the cell surface receptors to transcription factors in the nucleus.
Our data showed that the expression levels of P-ERK1/2 and P-STAT3 proteins in the Ras/Raf/MEK/ERK1/2 and JAK-STAT3 signaling pathways were significantly reduced 48 hours after 

('GATA1', 'GATA6', 'increases')
To date, six members of the GATA family have been identified in vertebrates (GATA1 to GATA6), of which GATA4, GATA5 and GATA6 are broadly expressed in various mesoderm and endoderm derived tissues, dominantly in embryonic heart 

('RUNX2', 'RUNX1', 'increases')
Human runt-related transcription factor (RUNX) family is composed of three members including RUNX1, RUNX2, and RUNX3.
Human runt-related transcription factor (RUNX) family is composed of three members including RUNX1, RUNX2, and RUNX3 [
RUNX1 and RUNX3 enhance proapoptotic activity of p53, whereas RUNX2 prohibits p53-dependent apoptotic cell death following DNA damage (
Under our experimental conditions, RUNX1 as well as RUNX3 acts as a positive regulator for p53 in response to DNA damage, whereas DNA damage-induced proapoptotic activity of p53 is strongly abrogated by RUNX2.

('BRAF', 'MEK1', 'adds_modification')
PD0325901 is another important inhibitor of the BRAF signal cascade (MEK1 and MEK2) and its efficiency has been tested in preclinical models as well as PLX40323 [
Costello syndrome is caused by mutations in HRAS, NF1 by mutations in Neurofibromin and CFC syndrome by mutations in BRAF, KRAS, and MEK1/2.
The syndrome is caused by gain-of-function mutations in four different genes BRAF, KRAS, mitogen-activated protein/extracellular signal-regulated kinase MEK1 and MEK2, all belonging to the same RAS extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) pathway that regulates cell differentiation, proliferation and apoptosis.
The stimulation of the MAPK pathway induces RAS to interact with RAF family kinases (ARAF, BRAF and CRAF), leading to the phosphorylation and activation of MEK1/2 and ERK1/2.

('E2F1', 'POU2F1', 'increases')
Among all genes with FDR values <0.005, there were 25 transcriptional factors: POU3F1, HEY1, TEAD1, POU4F2, VEZF1, KCNIP4, KLF12, E2F1, REST, FOXO4, NR4A1, HOXB8, POU2F1, HOXD9, HIC1, ZBTB16, TCF7, KLF11, IGFBP7, NFIC, PKNOX1, TWIST1, ING1, MEF2A and LITAF.

('MYC', 'ELK1', 'increases')
PXN, YWHAH, PTK2B, RAC1, PRKAR2A, PLA2G2A, STAT3, MYC, YWHAQ (includes EG:10971), PPP2R1A, PAK3, PIK3C3, PRKCD, PRKACA, PIK3CB, PIK3R2, ELK1, FYN, PRKAR1A.
IL1R2, MYC, TGFB1, MAP3K7IP2, IL1B, PLA2G2A, EEF2K, MAPKAPK2, ELK1.
MYC, JAK1, PIK3C3, STAT3, PIK3R2, JAK2, ELK1, INPP5D.
MYC, STAT5A, MTOR, PTPN11, HSP90AB1, PRKCD, PIK3R2, CDKN1B, ELK1, EGFR.

('STAT1', 'IRF1', 'increases')
The inhibition of vIRF1 in PEL cells led to elevation of protein levels of important genes in IFN signaling, including IRF3 and STAT1, indicating the activation of the pathway.
STAT1, a transcription factor upstream of IRF1 and mediator of IFN signaling, is also considered a tumor suppressor gene [

('PI3K', 'PDK1', 'increases_activity')
PI3K phosphorylates phospholipids inducing the recruitment of Akt to the plasma membrane and its activation by PDK1.
Activation of PI3K converts phosphatidylinositol 4,5-biphosphate (PIP2) into phosphatidylinositol 3,4,5 phosphate (PIP3), which leads to plasma membrane localization of phosphoinositol-dependent kinase-1 (PDK1) via its pleckstrin homology (PH) domain (
The dual specificity inhibitors, such as GNE477, NVP-BEZ235, PI-103, XL765, WJDOOS, LY294002 and BGT226, disable PI3K, mTORC1, mTORC2, Akt and PDK1 (
mTORC1 activates S6K and inhibits 4E-BP in response to extracellular (growth factors, amino acids, glucose and cellular conditions) and intracellular signals (PI3K, AKT, PDK1, TSC1/2, AMPK, Rheb and Rag GTPases), resulting in activation of protein synthesis and suppression of autophagy.
These five natural products have significantly contributed the understanding of molecular mechanisms of action in PI3K/PDK1/PKB pathways activated by insulin and other growth factors.
Nonetheless, these compounds greatly helped in exploring molecular activation mechanisms on the functional activation of PI3K, PDK1 and PKB, as well as their substrate proteins upon insulin treatment.
The Akt signaling pathway, from PI3K to phosphoinositide-dependent kinase-1 (PDK1) and from PDK1 to Akt, mediates apoptosis in human cancer cells (
The pathway-based phosphor profiling approach identifies and quantifies clinically relevant, drug-specific biomarkers for PI3K pathway inhibitors that target AKT, phosphoinositide dependent kinase 1 (PDK1), PI3K and mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) [
(b) Upregulation of HER2 downstream signaling pathways: PTEN loss, increased PI3K/Akt activity and PDK1 changes.

('DAG', 'PKC', 'increases_activity')
When considering possible mechanisms of diabetic cardiomyopathies, diacylglycerol (DAG) and its effects on protein kinase C (PKC) signaling have been implicated [
Another cellular signaling pathway that is altered in the presence of high glucose and contributes to endothelial dysfunction is the increased de novo synthesis of diacylglycerides (DAG) and the subsequent activation of protein kinase C (PKC) [
DGKH (diacylglycerol kinase isoenzyme): one of the lipid kinases catalyzing conversion of diacylglycerol (DAG) to phosphatidic acid with an overall reduction in DAG which is a cofactor in the activation of PKC.
FATP: fatty acid transport protein; FFA: free fatty acid; LC-CoA: long-chain fatty acid-CoA; DAG: diacylglycerol; PKC: protein kinase C; IR: insulin receptor; IRS: insulin receptor substrate; PI3K: phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase; GLUT4: glucose transporter protein 4.
Renal injury in diabetes is known to be associated with the activation of the diacylglycerol (DAG)-PKC pathway.
Melatonin (MEL) binds to membrane receptors (MT2/MT1) to activate PKC through the diacylglycerol (DAG) pathway.
It is thought that activation of protein kinase C (PKC) due to elevation of DAG and intracellular calcium is responsible for cortical granule exocytosis, cortical contraction, reformation of the nuclear envelope and sperm chromatin decondensation.
The domain architectures of DGKs reflect this common function, as each of the ten isoforms has a catalytic domain as well as at least two C1 domains that are homologous to protein kinase C (PKC) C1 phorbol-ester/DAG binding domains.
As DGK C1 domains are homologous to DAG/phorbol ester-binding PKC C1 domains, DGK C1 domains were presumed to mediate the binding of DGK to DAG.

('PI3K', 'FAK', 'adds_modification')
EGFR: epidermal growth factor receptor; FAK: focal adhesion kinase; Grb2: growth factor receptor-bound protein 2; GAB1: Grb2-associated binding protein; MEK, mitogen-activated protein kinase/ERK kinase; PI3K: phosphoinositide 3-kinase; mTOR: mammalian target of rapamycin; RAS: renin-angiotensin system; VEGF: vascular endothelial growth factor.
FAK autophosphorylation at Y397 provides a binding site for SH2 domain-containing proteins such as Src family kinases and the p85 subunit of PI3K, which is important for integrin-mediated cell growth and migration [
Laminin influences several signaling proteins in cultured OLGs, including Fyn, FAK, MAPK, and PI3K [
Eph receptors are known to signal through a number of different pathways and molecules, including small GTPases of the Rho and Ras family, focal adhesion kinase (FAK), the Jak/Stat pathway and the PI3K pathway 
Fangchinoline inhibits the the expression of FAKPI3K.
FAK is the link between integrins and downstream signaling transduction pathways and activates ERK and PI3K/AKT pathways involved in cell proliferation and migration (
Some upstream regulators of RhoA, including PI3K, focal adhesion kinase (FAK), GC-binding factor 2 (GCF2) and GTPase regulator associated with focal adhesion kinase-1 (GRAF1), have been reported to participate in endocytosis and membrane protein trafficking by regulating RhoA activation.
Treatment with the PI3K inhibitor (LY294002) or the FAK inhibitor (PF573228) suppresses compensatory endocytosis by ~30% and ~70%, respectively, by inhibiting the activation of RhoA and then reducing the recruitment of ROCK [
As such, FAK can be activated at tyr397 by many protein tyrosine kinases such as PI3K and Grb7 and subsequently regulate focal adhesion dynamics during cell migration and activate prosurvival and mitogenic signaling pathways [
cMET activates several pathways including SRC/FAK, the signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3), PI3K/AKT, and RAS [

('BRAF', 'MEK2', 'adds_modification')
PD0325901 is another important inhibitor of the BRAF signal cascade (MEK1 and MEK2) and its efficiency has been tested in preclinical models as well as PLX40323 [
The syndrome is caused by gain-of-function mutations in four different genes BRAF, KRAS, mitogen-activated protein/extracellular signal-regulated kinase MEK1 and MEK2, all belonging to the same RAS extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) pathway that regulates cell differentiation, proliferation and apoptosis.

('NFE2', 'BACH1', 'increases')
Real-time PCR (RT-qPCR) was performed with StepOne real-time PCR system (Applied Biosystems, Foster City, CA, USA) using TaqMan Gene Expression Master Mix and ready-made human HMOX1 (Hs 01110250_m1), ACTB (Hs 99999903_m1), NQO1 (Hs00168547_m1), GSTP1 (Hs00943351_g1), BACH1 (Hs00230917_m1), NFE2L2 (Hs00975960_m1), and KEAP1 (Hs00202227_m1) Gene Expression Assays (Applied Biosystems, Foster City, CA, USA).
Real-time PCR analyses showed that there were no drastic changes in the expression of BACH1, NFE2L2 (NRF2), and KEAP1 genes when PC-3 cells were treated with ZnPP.

('JUN', 'RUNX1', 'increases')
as co-activators for several transcription factors including p53, pRB, MYB, JUN, FOS, and RUNX1 [

('SHC', 'GRB2', 'binds')
The MAPK signaling pathway involves the tyrosine phosphorylation of SH2 inositol 5-phosphatase 1 (SHIP1), which binds to EpoR and recruits adapter proteins like SHC and growth factor receptor-bound protein 2 (GRB2) to the receptor [

('RUNX1', 'RUNX2', 'increases')
Human runt-related transcription factor (RUNX) family is composed of three members including RUNX1, RUNX2, and RUNX3.
Human runt-related transcription factor (RUNX) family is composed of three members including RUNX1, RUNX2, and RUNX3 [
RUNX1 and RUNX3 enhance proapoptotic activity of p53, whereas RUNX2 prohibits p53-dependent apoptotic cell death following DNA damage (
Under our experimental conditions, RUNX1 as well as RUNX3 acts as a positive regulator for p53 in response to DNA damage, whereas DNA damage-induced proapoptotic activity of p53 is strongly abrogated by RUNX2.

('Raf-1', 'MEK', 'adds_modification')
ERK-1 activation is regulated by Raf-1 and MEK.
Raf-1 kinase and MEK regulate NF-kB activation: Gene expression of NF-
In order to understand the role of MEK, a down-stream signaling step of Raf-1 activation, in glucose-induced apoptosis of retinal endothelial cells, we investigated the effect of a specific and noncompetitive inhibitor of MEK phosphorylation, PD098059, on glucose-induced activation of NF-
Initiation of DNA synthesis
was preceded by activation of Raf-1, MEK and
MAP kinases (Erk 1 and Erk2).
As a result, the activated Raf-1 stimulates the MEK1/2 and its cascade which then phosphorylate the MAPK protein ERK1/2.
Sorafenib is an orally active multikinase inhibitor that blocks intracellular kinases in the Raf/MEK/ERK pathway that are involved in tumor proliferation, such as Raf-1, as well as those promoting angiogenesis, including VEGFR-2, VEGFR-3, FLT, PDGFR-
receptor pathway: To block Ras/Raf-1/MEKK1 signaling pathway through upregulation of 14-3-3 and calmodulin expression; to inhibit the PKC to activate and then catalyze the phosphorylation of threonine (Thr) residues on EGF receptor through upregulation of annexin A5.
All Rafs can bind and phosphorylate MEK, but B-Raf has the strongest activity towards MEK, while A-Raf and Raf-1 have MEK-independent functions [
All of these syndromes are associated with autosomal-dominant germline mutations within either the core components (Ras, B-Raf, Raf-1, MEK) of the Ras-ERK1/2 pathway or its modulators (NF1, SHP2, SOS, and Spred).

('RAF1', 'MEK1', 'increases_activity')
Western blot analysis was used to evaluate the effects of DADS on the protein levels of RAF1, MEK1, phosphor-MEK1 (p-MEK1), ERK1/2 and p-ERK1/2 in ECA109 xenograft tumors.
Our results showed a significant down-regulation of RAF1, p-MEK1, ERK1/2 and p-ERK1/2 protein expressions in 20 and 40 mg/kg DADS groups (
The protein expression levels of RAF1, MEK1, phosphor-MEK1 (p-MEK1), ERK1/2 and p-ERK1/2 from the negative control group, 20 mg/kg DADS group and 40 mg/kg DADS group were assessed by western blot analysis.

('AR', 'FOXA1', 'increases')
The A-class of FOX proteins, especially FOXA1, functions as a pioneer factor to facilitate AR transactivation and PCa growth.
The present review focuses primarily on recent advances in the epigenetic, mechanistic and clinical relevant aspects of regulation of the AR by FOXA1 and FOXO1 factors in PCa.
FOXA1 is a pioneer factor for the AR-mediated transcriptional program 
FOXA1 is a global mediator of AR action in hormone-dependent PCa.
High throughput chromatin immunoprecipitation-sequencing (ChIP-seq) has delineated the genome-wide binding sites of AR and FOXA1 (the AR and FOXA1 cistromes) in parental LNCaP-1F5 cells and cells depleted of FOXA1 protein.
High-throughput analyses revealed a complex relationship between FOXA1, AR and histone markers 
FOXA1 can also form a complex with AR and its target genes.
NKX3.1, AR, and FOXA1 coordinate with each other, thereby increasing PCa cell survival by directly upregulating RAB3B, a member of the RAB GTPase family 
FOXA1 also modulates AR activity in metastatic PCa.
Increased expression of FOXA1 results in an overactive AR complex that is responsive to low levels of DHT
Although previous studies have focused on ligand-dependent AR signaling, a FOXA1-independent function of AR activity has been discovered under androgen deprived conditions 
Taken together, these findings suggest that increased FOXA1 results in an overactive AR complex, which is responsive to low levels of DHT in CRPC.
On the other hand, AR also has a FOXA1-independent function to open and maintain chromatin structure.
Thus, these AR bound DNA regions do not require FOXA1 for relaxing the chromatin.
Apart from FOXA1, FOXO1 blocks AR activity 
Additionally, FOXA1 was shown to regulate a large number of genes considered to be AR-pathway-specific through binding and activating the glucocorticoid receptor [

('E2F1', 'GATA1', 'increases')
HATs and DACs affect the acetylation status of lysine residues not only of histones but also of transcription factors (TF) (eg, p53, E2F1, GATA1, RelA, Y1, MAD/MAX, TFIIE and TFIIF, and hormone receptors).

('GATA6', 'GATA1', 'increases')
To date, six members of the GATA family have been identified in vertebrates (GATA1 to GATA6), of which GATA4, GATA5 and GATA6 are broadly expressed in various mesoderm and endoderm derived tissues, dominantly in embryonic heart 

('RAF1', 'MEK1', 'adds_modification')
Western blot analysis was used to evaluate the effects of DADS on the protein levels of RAF1, MEK1, phosphor-MEK1 (p-MEK1), ERK1/2 and p-ERK1/2 in ECA109 xenograft tumors.
Our results showed a significant down-regulation of RAF1, p-MEK1, ERK1/2 and p-ERK1/2 protein expressions in 20 and 40 mg/kg DADS groups (
The protein expression levels of RAF1, MEK1, phosphor-MEK1 (p-MEK1), ERK1/2 and p-ERK1/2 from the negative control group, 20 mg/kg DADS group and 40 mg/kg DADS group were assessed by western blot analysis.

('NFE2L2', 'BACH1', 'increases')
Real-time PCR (RT-qPCR) was performed with StepOne real-time PCR system (Applied Biosystems, Foster City, CA, USA) using TaqMan Gene Expression Master Mix and ready-made human HMOX1 (Hs 01110250_m1), ACTB (Hs 99999903_m1), NQO1 (Hs00168547_m1), GSTP1 (Hs00943351_g1), BACH1 (Hs00230917_m1), NFE2L2 (Hs00975960_m1), and KEAP1 (Hs00202227_m1) Gene Expression Assays (Applied Biosystems, Foster City, CA, USA).
Real-time PCR analyses showed that there were no drastic changes in the expression of BACH1, NFE2L2 (NRF2), and KEAP1 genes when PC-3 cells were treated with ZnPP.

('NR3C1', 'CYP26A1', 'increases')
Downregulated genes within the development cluster were as follows: sprouty homologue 1 (SPRY1), MAPK14, dystroglycan (DAG1), crystallin, alpha B (CRYAB), prolactin receptor (PRLR), nebulin (NEB), and chromosome 1 open-reading frame 68 (C1orf68), CYP26A1, DHRS9, NR3C1 and MAPK14 were identified in both cluster 1 and 2.

('MEK', 'ERK', 'adds_modification')
It includes the MAPK kinase (MEK) which is just downstream BRAF, the extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase (ERK), and the p38 MAPK and the Jun NH2-terminal protein kinase (JNK) activation pathways [
Chromatin immunoprecipitation assays revealed that H2A.Z was enriched at previously characterized u-PAR-regulatory regions (promoter and a downstream enhancer) and that it dissociated upon activation of gene expression by PMA in an MEK1,2-ERK1,2-dependent way [
For example, activated MEK1-ERK signaling contributes to increased IL-1
 G0/G1 transition is controlled by cytokines and oxidative stress activating intracellular signalling pathways including MEK/ERK, STAT3, and JNK [
Interestingly, the stimulation by EGF induced phosphorylation of ERK1/2 proteins demonstrating the activation of the MEK/ERK pathway but failed to induce cyclin D1 and Cdk1 expression and DNA replication confirming that hepatocytes in cultured slices were arrested in mid-G1 phase of the cell cycle in presence of growth factor.
Numerous studies have shown that growth factor could enhance cell proliferation and survival through the activation of the MEK1/2-ERK1/2 pathway, including hepatocytes in primary culture.
The Ras-Raf-MEK1/2-ERK1/2 pathway couples signal from the cell surface receptors to cytoplasmic substrates and transcription factors, which regulate gene expression [
This model emphasizes that early EGF stimulation of hepatocytes in the absence of FCS and transient or sustained inhibition of the MEK/ERK pathway represent serum-free models (
The MEK/ERK signaling pathway plays a central role in the regulation of various physiological processes such as proliferation, survival or cell motility.
In addition, the ERK1/2 kinases could also undergo a more intense stimulation through the overexpression of various components of the MEK/ERK pathway.
The MEK/ERK overactivation in hepatocarcinoma cells will promote various cellular processes.
The critical involvement of the MEK/ERK pathway in HCC tumorigenesis strongly suggests that the kinases MEK1/2 or ERK1/2 could be promising therapeutic targets.
Long-term survival/differentiation in EGF stimulated cells and sequential MEK/ERK inhibitions allowing multiple divisions waves.
Hepatocytes are cultured in presence or absence (-GF) of EGF and after one week of culture, transient inhibitions of MEK/ERK by U0126 allow EGF-cultured hepatocytes to re-enter in new cell cycles.
EGFR: epidermal growth factor receptor; FAK: focal adhesion kinase; Grb2: growth factor receptor-bound protein 2; GAB1: Grb2-associated binding protein; MEK, mitogen-activated protein kinase/ERK kinase; PI3K: phosphoinositide 3-kinase; mTOR: mammalian target of rapamycin; RAS: renin-angiotensin system; VEGF: vascular endothelial growth factor.
Tyrosine kinase type receptors, such as VEGFR, PDGFR, EGFR, FGFR, and IGFR, activate intracellular RAS in the RAF/MEK/ERK pathway [
The RAF/MEK/ERK and the PI3K/AKT/mTOR signaling pathways are shown.
Proangiogenic and proliferative growth factors activate the RAF/MEK/ERK pathway.
Intermediate signaling is regulated by MEK, which is responsible for phosphorylating and activating the final downstream signaling ERK molecules.
PCK cholangiocytes are hyperresponsive to EGF, and the increase in their proliferation is accompanied by activation of the MEK5/ERK5 pathway [
The inhibition of renal cAMP production by treatment with a vasopressin V2 receptor antagonist or by increasing water intake to reduce plasma vasopressin decreases cell proliferation and ameliorates kidney cystogenesis with an associated reduction in B-Raf/MEK/ERK activity, leading to improved renal function in PCK rats [
ERK-1 activation is regulated by Raf-1 and MEK.
Activation of Ras-Raf appears to result in the apoptosis of retinal capillary cells via Ras-Raf-MEK-ERK pathway.
Activated Raf phosphorylates MEK, which in turn, activates ERK (
ERK is a downstream component of the Raf-MEK activated signaling pathway.
Activation of MEK by Raf is followed by phosphorylation of ERK.
Glucose-induced activation of caspase-3 in the endothelial cells is inhibited by GW5074 suggesting that the Ras-Raf-MEK-ERK-mediated apoptosis of retinal capillary cells in high glucose conditions occurs via activation of caspase-3.
Concentration dependent expression pattern of MAPK signaling proteins studied are pERK and pMEK1/2.
ERK is one of the main components of the Ras/Raf/MEK/ERK cascade, which mediates signal from cell surface receptors to transcription factors to regulate different gene expression.
To study the effect of chemotherapy on Raf/MEK/ERK pathway, the expression of ERK1/2 and phospho-ERK was compared in MCF-7 and MDA-MB-231 cells after DOX treatment.
In fact this interaction through direct contact or through the secretion of cytokines triggers the activation of different signaling pathways such as the PI3K/AKT, MAPK/MEK/ERK or JAK/STAT pathways, that ends up in a proliferative advantage for myelomatous plasma cells and a drug resistance phenotype [
Furthermore, as MKNK-1/2 is down-stream of the RAS/MEK/ERK signaling pathway, LY2801653 may have anti-tumor activity in tumors bearing KRAS-activating mutations in addition to the over-expression of the above mentioned RTK targets.
The angiogenic activity of CX3CL1 required two signal pathways: RAF-1/MEK/ERK and PI3K/Akt/eNOS/NO.
Crosstalk between the phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K)/ Akt and MEK/ERK cascades is a central regulator of cell metabolism, proliferation and survival (
Rapamycin-induced apoptosis was enhanced following the inhibition of the MEK/ERK pathway.
The present study demonstrates that rapamycin induces autophagy in Nara-H cells by activating the MEK/ERK signaling pathway, and the rapamycin-induced apoptosis can be enhanced by the MEK inhibitor, U0126.
These results suggest that self-protective mechanisms involving mTOR inhibitors in Nara-H cells are prevented by the inhibition of the MEK/ERK pathway.
In conclusion, the present study demonstrates that rapamycin induces cytoprotective autophagy in Nara-H cells by activating the MEK/ERK signaling pathway and that rapamycin-induced apoptosis can be enhanced by MEK inhibitors.
These results suggest that self-protective mechanisms involving mTOR inhibitors in Nara-H cells are prevented by the inhibition of the MEK/ERK pathway.
In other words, the MEK/ERK signaling pathway is activated by rapamycin as a self-defense mechanism, and cytoprotective autophagy is induced.
Effects of hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) on c-Met-MEK-ERK signaling.
Activation of the MEK-ERK signal cascade enhances the replication of viruses, such as the human immunodeficiency (
However, the curcumin-inhibited MEK-ERK mechanism contributes negatively to its anti-HCV activity.
Impaired activation of signalling pathways, such as the serine/threonine-specific protein kinase pathways and the MEK/ERK pathway, have been demonstrated to account for decreased T cell activation associated with ageing (
In vitro studies of A549 cells and in vivo studies with rats demonstrate tobacco smoke-mediated induction of c-Fos, MEK1, and ERK2 MAP kinase activities (
MEK1/2 activation leads to phosphorylation of ERK1/2 MAP kinase, which can translocate to the nucleus and phosphorylate transcription factors which bind to regulatory elements in the promoters of target genes, inducing their expression.
Several other targeted agents currently under evaluation in preclinical and clinical trials include inhibitors of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), dual EGFR and HER2 inhibitors, VEGF/VEGFR inhibitors, and agents that interfere with crucial signaling pathways such as PI3K/AKT/mTOR and RAS/MEK/ERK; agents against other tyrosine kinases such as Src, insulin-like growth factor (IGF)/IGF-receptor (IGFR); agents that promote apoptosis such as Poly ADP ribose polymerase inhibitors; agents that target invasion and metastasis such as matrix metalloproteinases inhibitors and others.
Other target agents that have evolved in recent times include tyrosine kinases such as Src, insulin-like growth factor (IGF)/IGF-receptor (IGFR); agents that interfere with critical pathways, such as PI3K/AKT/mTOR inhibitors, RAS/MEK/ERK inhibitors; agents that promote apoptosis such as Poly ADP ribose polymerase (PARP) inhibitors; agents that target invasion and metastasis such as MMP inhibitors, and others.
PD 0325901, a second generation MEK inhibitor, was found to significantly improve pharmacologic and pharmaceutical activity and reduced pERK in tumor tissue of patients with advanced cancer.
Raf phosphorylates MAPKK (MEK) which in turn phosphorylates MAPK-ERK.
The best-studied mitogen activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway is the extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) cascade, which transmits signal from Raf (MAP kinase kinase kinase) to MEK (MAP kinase kinase) to ERK (MAP kinase).
IQGAP1 is a scaffold for MAPK signaling, binding to B-Raf, MEK1/2, and ERK1/2, and regulating their activity in response to epidermal growth factor (EGF) (reviewed in [
To assess a possible role of MEK/ERK signalling in anandamide-mediated protection, we used Western blotting to examine the effect of anandamide on the phosphorylation status of ERK1/2.
Cannabinoids have been shown to activate PI3K/Akt and MEK/ERK signalling pathways    [
In the event that clinical situations can be identified where the Ras-driven signal may be predominantly through a single pathway, such as that through ERK MAPK that can be selectively blocked with MEK inhibitors, there would presumably be high potential for resistance to develop via selection of a subclone that has oncogenic signaling through, for example, the PI 3-kinase/Akt pathway.
KRAS, a member of the rat sarcoma viral oncogene homolog (RAS) proto-oncogene family, is a key protein in the EGFR pathway, and plays an important role in the activation of various downstream proteins, including Raf, MEK and ERK 
It is known that IGF-1 mediates its effects through different signaling cascades such as MEK-ERK, 14.4.4-raf, PI3K-AKT and p38-MAPKAP-K3.
AT1R: Ang II type 1 receptor; AT2R: Ang II type 2 receptor; ERK1/2: extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2; JAK: Janus-activated kinase; MAPK: mitogen-activated protein kinase; p38: p38 MAPK; PKC: protein kinase C; STAT: signal transducer and activator of transcription; NO: nitric oxide; SHP-1: protein tyrosine phosphatase SH2 domain-containing phosphatase 1; MEK: mitogen/ERK kinase.
Sorafenib is known to inhibit tumor cell proliferation and vascularization through activation of the receptor for tyrosine kinase, which in turn signals the Ras/Raf/mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase (MEK)/extracellular-signal-regulated kinase (ERK) cascade pathway.
Pretreatment with PD98059, a MEK inhibitor, prevented the ERK1/2 phosphorylation and proliferation induced by silica NPs.
We confirmed the effect of silica NPs on ERK signaling by inhibiting MEK, an upregulator of ERK signaling.
The proliferation-related MEK-ERK1/2 signaling pathway is suppressed by PD98059 via MEK signaling inhibition,
All complementary peptides were almost unable to activate efficiently phosphorylation of MEK1/2 and ERK1/2, p38 and JNK (
 Activation of D1 receptor/PKA/DARPP-32 signaling cascade leads to the inactivation of PP1 and allows for the activation of MEK and its downstream kinase ERK.
Abbreviations: AC, adenylatecyclase; cAMP, cyclic AMP; PKA, protein kinase A; DARPP-32, 32-kDa DA and cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein; ERK, extracellular signal-regulated kinase; MEK, mitogen-activated protein/ERK kinase; GIRK, G protein-coupled inwardly rectifying potassium channels; PLC, phospholipase C; PKC, protein kinase C; IP
The syndrome is caused by gain-of-function mutations in four different genes BRAF, KRAS, mitogen-activated protein/extracellular signal-regulated kinase MEK1 and MEK2, all belonging to the same RAS extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) pathway that regulates cell differentiation, proliferation and apoptosis.
Crosstalk between PI3-K/Akt and MEK-ERK pathways in different cell types has been demonstrated (
MP1 was first identified as a scaffold protein enhancing the efficiency of the MAPK pathway by facilitating the interaction between MEK1 and ERK1 upon serum stimulation (Schaeffer et al. 
The MEK/ERK signaling pathway plays a crucial role in the self-renewing state of ES cells; PD0325901 inhibitor suppresses ERK activation, thereby inhibiting ES cell differentiation (Buehr et al. 
The mitogen-activated protein/extracellular signal-regulated kinase kinase (MEK) inhibitor blocks the Raf/MEK/extracellular signal-related kinase (ERK) pathway and is involved in proliferation and anti-apoptosis 
SB203580 (a specific inhibitor of the p38-MAPK pathway) and PD98059 (an MAP2K1 [mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase 1, previously, MEK1] inhibitor) were used to inhibit p38-MAPK and ERKs, respectively.
Whilst the MEK/ERK pathway served similar roles for cytokine production, marked differences were observed between myDC and moDC for p38 MAPK.
In contrast to p38, myDC and moDC responded similarly to inhibition of the MEK-ERK pathway [Fig. 
Abbreviations: CBP, CREB binding protein; CRE, cAMP response element; ERK, extracellular signal regulated kinase; JNK, Jun N-terminal kinase; MEK, MAPK kinase; NF-IL6, nuclear factor interleukin 6; PEA3, polyomavirus enhancer activator 3; PI3K, phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase; PLA2, phopholipase A2; RNA Pol II, RNA polymerase II; TBP, TATA-binding protein (derived from (
To investigate the activation of cell proliferation and survival pathways associated with PAK1 overexpression in IBD and CAC, MEK/ERK, PI3K/AKT, and mTOR pathways were examined.
After CaSR stimulation, many intracellular signaling events occur via MEK1/ERK1,2 and PLC pathways and lead to proliferation of vascular smooth muscle cells.
PI3K-AKT-mTOR and RAF-MEK-ERK signaling have been shown to be important in the resistance of thyroid cancer cells to apoptosis and the promotion of tumor progression.
The two most important oncogenic signaling pathways are PI3K/AKT/mTOR and Ras/Raf/MEK/ERK.
IRS can activate the RAF-MEK-ERK pathway (aka the mitogen-activated protein-kinase (MAPK) pathway, 
Raf/MEK/ERK and PI3K/Akt pathway dysregulation is a common alteration responsible of tumor initiation and progression.
The overexpression or constitutive activation of receptors for growth factors, cytokines, and CKs potentiates the activation of Ras/Raf/MEK/ERK pathway also in pituitary adenoma [
Temporal changes in phosphoactivation of three proteins (EGFR, MEK1/2, and ERK1/2) were measured at five-minute intervals across a twenty-minute time course of EGF stimulation.
Ligand binding activates a chain of signaling events, which includes successive phosphorylation of the EGFR, MEK, and ERK proteins.
The intracellular signaling pathway Raf/MEK/ERK and the extracellular receptors VEGFR and PDGFR have been implicated in the molecular pathogenesis of HCC (
The classical MAPK pathway consists of RAS, RAF, MEK and ERK, sequentially relaying proliferative signals generated at the cell surface receptors and through cytoplasmic signaling into the nucleus (
The mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase kinase (MEK)-extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) pathway and the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)-Akt pathway play critical roles in the regulation of cell proliferation, growth, differentiation and survival (
Effect of quercetin aglycone and PAC DP-9 (12-h treatment) on cellular expression of MEK (A), phospho-ERK1/2 (B), phospho-histone H3 (C), cyclin D1 (D), DNA-PK (E) and p21 (F) in SKOV-3 and OVCAR-8 cells.
MEK, cyclin D1 and p21 were probed by DyLight 488 secondary antibody (green); phospho-ERK1/2, phospho-histone H3 and DNA-PK were probed by DyLight 594 secondary antibody (red).
Treatment with phloroglucinol significantly inhibited the expression of Ras, Raf, mitogen-activated protein kinase (MEK), extracellular-signal regulated kinase (ERK) phosphorylation, PI3K and Akt.
IGF-1R signaling involves activation of Ras, Raf, MEK and ERK (
Dose-dependent effect of phloroglucinol on the (A) protein and (B) mRNA expression of Ras, Raf, MEK and phospho-ERK in HT-29 colon cancer cells.
Following radiation, ERK1/2 is activated through dual tyrosine and threonine phosphorylation by MEK1/2 and the activation, in turn, leads to the phosphorylation/activation of over 160 substrates (
Radiation induces activation of HER receptors, which, in turn, leads to the activation of PI3K/AKT and RAS/RAF/MEK/ERK signaling pathways that promote cell survival.
In melanoma, both the Ras/Raf/MEK/ERK (MAPK) and the PI3K/AKT (AKT) signalling pathways are constitutively activated through multiple mechanisms.
The pharmacodynamic analysis reported that the activity of vemurafenib was characterized as exposure-dependent tumor response corresponding with percentage of inhibition of MEK and ERK phosphorylation.
MEK1 and MEK2 display a similar structural organization, are closely related and they participate in the Ras/Raf/MEK/ERK signal transduction cascade (
The PI3K/AKT/mTOR and RAS/RAF/MEK/ERK pathways interact at multiple points, resulting in cross-activation, cross-inhibition, pathway convergence and these observations have driven the development of small molecule inhibitors that target various nodes of both pathways (
This review pays attention on the clinical application of both Raf/MEK/ERK and PI3K/AKT/mTOR pathway inhibitors as novel treatment strategy for melanoma.
Raf/MEK/ERK and PI3K/AKT pathways and mechanism of action of their inhibitors in melanoma.
Interestingly, we found that both NVP-BEZ235 monotherapy and combination treatment caused increased phosphorylation of MEK1/2, and ERK1/2.
ERK kinase participates in the Ras/Raf/MEK/ERK signaling pathway, which is activated by mitogens and growth factors (
The class I phosphatidylinositol 3-phosphate kinase (PI3K)/AKT/Raptor-mTOR (mTORC1) signaling pathway and the Ras/Raf/MEK1/2/ERK1/2 pathway are two well-known signaling cascades involved in the regulation of autophagy (
Levels of total MEK and total ERK and JNK pathway related proteins were unchanged.
Together, these findings indicate that administration of CFZ and CPT-11 or CFZ alone leads to MEK/ERK pathway inactivation and MKP-1 downregulation, accompanied by PI3K/AKT pathway dephosphorylation and survivin inhibition.
CFZ alone or combined with CPT-11 blocks the phosphorylation of MEK/ERK and PI3K/AKT pathway, as well as expression of MKP-1 and survivin in SW620 cells.
(A) Changes of the expression and phosphorylation levels of MEK, ERK, Smad2/3 and Akt in RMG-I, RMG-I-C and RMG-I-H cells.
The RAS/RAF/MEK/ERK and PI3K/v-Akt murine thymoma viral oncogene (Akt)/mTOR pathways are the two major signal transduction cascades that are often hyper-activated in various human cancers, including melanoma (
The stimulation of the MAPK pathway induces RAS to interact with RAF family kinases (ARAF, BRAF and CRAF), leading to the phosphorylation and activation of MEK1/2 and ERK1/2.
With the aim of blocking the hyper-activation of this pathway and the related uncontrolled neoplastic cell growth and dissemination, several small inhibitors have been synthesized and many strategies have been investigated to target the RAS/RAF/MEK/ERK pathway by vertical inhibition (
Resistance to targeted therapies can arise from several mechanisms, including the hyper-activation of one or more pro-survival signaling pathways, like the PI3K/Akt/mTOR and RAS/RAF/MEK/ERK cascades that are known to interact at multiple points, resulting in cross-activation, cross-inhibition and pathway convergence (
Signaling through RTKs ultimately leads to the activation of two main pathways, MEK/ERK and PI3K/mTOR (
One of the most promising approaches to sensitize melanoma cells to TRAIL-mediated cell death is the simultaneous targeting with inhibitors of either MEK/ERK or PI3K/mTOR pathways.
Furthermore, sensitivity of MEK-inhibitor-resistant melanoma cell lines to MEK/ERK blockade could be restored by inhibition of Stat3, which is constitutively activated in human melanoma and contributes to cell growth and survival (
Preclinical studies evaluating vertical targeting of RAS/MEK/ERK pathway.
Preclinical studies co-targeting RAS/MEK/ERK and PI3K/Akt/mTOR pathways.
Akt, v-akt murine thymoma viral oncogene homolog; Bcl, B-cell lymphoma; cFLIP, cellular FLICE-inhibitory protein; EGFR, epidermal growth factor receptor; ERK, extracellular signal-regulated kinase; ErbB, v-erb-b2 avian erythroblastic leukemia viral oncogene homolog; FGFR, fibroblast growth factor receptor; IGF-1R, insulin-like growth factor-1 receptor; LN, lymph node; MEK, mitogen-activated protein/extracellular signal-regulated kinase; mTOR, mammalian target of rapamycin; PPP, cyclolignan picropodophyllin; RTKs, receptor tyrosine kinases; TRAIL, TNF-related apoptosis-inducing ligand; Stat, Signal transducers and activators of transcription; VEGF, vascular-endothelial growth factor; VEGFR, VEGF receptor.
Commercially available slides with IHC controls (#8103, SignalSlide Phospho-p44/42 MAPK (Thr202/Tyr204) IHC Controls, Cell Signaling Technology) that consisted of paraffin-embedded NIH/3T3 cells, treated with U0126 (a specific and potent inhibitor of MEK1/2) or TPA (12-O-tetra-decanoylphorbol-13 acetate, a strong inducer of ERK1/2 activity through PKC modulation) were used as negative and positive controls for phospho-ERK1/2 antibody, respectively.
Recently, a study of predictive biomarkers of efficacy of trametinib (GSK1120212), a new inhibitor of MEK1/2 (2 kinases that are upstream of ERK1/2 in the MAPK pathway) that is being tested in clinical trials (
Under HCV NS5A expression, RNA interference (RNAi) targeting of NS5ATP9 could reverse the inhibition of HepG2 cell proliferation, suggesting that NS5ATP9 might be an anti-proliferation gene that plays an important role in the suppression of cell growth mediated by HCV NS5A via MEK/ERK signaling pathway.
Under conditions of HCV NS5A expression, interfering RNA targeting of NS5ATP9 could reverse the inhibition of HepG2 cell proliferation, suggesting that NS5ATP9 could be an anti-proliferation gene that plays an important role in the suppression of cell growth mediated by HCV NS5A via MEK/ERK signaling pathway.
We observed that at 72 h after co-transfection, the protein levels of MEK and total ERK were not significantly different from the control; however, the phosphorylation status of MEK and ERK (p-MEK and p-ERK1/2) were significantly elevated (
Our results demonstrate that NS5ATP9 accounted for the suppression of cell growth by HCV NS5A through interfering with MEK/ERK signaling pathway, at least partially.
Under conditions of HCV NS5A expression, RNAi targeting of NS5ATP9 could reverse the inhibition of HepG2 cell proliferation, suggesting that NS5ATP9 might be an anti-proliferation gene that plays an important role in the suppression of cell growth mediated by HCV NS5A via MEK/ERK signaling pathway.
MEK/ERK signaling pathway is involved in NS5ATP9-mediated proliferation inhibition under HCV NS5A expression.
Since the PI3K/Akt/mTOR pathway plays such a prominent role in the signaling network, it must be subject to strict internal regulations (e.g., by the feedback loops, as already introduced) and external regulations (e.g., by crosstalk with other signaling pathways, such as the Ras/MEK/ERK- and AMPK-related pathway [
The HBV-encoded protein, HBx, has been shown to promote cell proliferation by activating intracellular signaling transduction cascades, including the Ras/Raf/MEK/ERK, PI-3K-Akt/PKB, c-Jun 
We next investigated whether the PI3K/Akt and MEK/ERK signaling pathways were involved in increasing the expression of cyclin D1.
Because the phosphorylated forms of Akt and ERK 1/2 have been shown to be indirect indicators of the activities of their upstream signaling molecules PI3K and MEK, respectively, we determined the involvement of PI3K and MEK in the HBx-induced effects using a pharmacological approach to block their activities.
After treating with LY294002, a PI3K inhibitor, or PD184352, a MEK inhibitor, for 24 h, HBx-induced activation of Akt and ERK, as well as up-regulation of cyclin D1 protein levels, were greatly suppressed compared with non-treated controls (
After confirming that overexpression of HBx activated the PI3K/Akt and MEK/ERK signaling pathways and promoted proliferation in oval cells, we examined whether activation of these pathways play a vital role in HBx-induced proliferation in oval cells.
We used the inhibitor of MEK 1/2 (SL327) that inhibits ERK 1/2 phosphorylation and activation, the inhibitor of PI 3-kinase (LY294002) that inhibits phosphorylation and activation of downstream Akt (protein kinase B), and the inhibitor of PKC (GF109203X).
In our studies, the inhibitor of MEK 1/2 SL327 prevents the ERK 1/2 activation by H
The Rafs regulate cellular proliferation and differentiation through the Raf/MEK/ERK/MAPK signaling cascade, which is hyperactivated in ~30% of all cancers [
To characterize the effect of sorafenib on MAPK signaling in UCCs, we investigated the effect of sorafenib on phosphorylation of ERK and MEK in T24 and VMCub1 cells.
Since a measurement at a single time point might be misleading, a time course of sorafenib effects on MEK, ERK and AKT phosphorylation was performed in VMCub1.
Western blot analysis was used to evaluate the effects of DADS on the protein levels of RAF1, MEK1, phosphor-MEK1 (p-MEK1), ERK1/2 and p-ERK1/2 in ECA109 xenograft tumors.
Our results showed a significant down-regulation of RAF1, p-MEK1, ERK1/2 and p-ERK1/2 protein expressions in 20 and 40 mg/kg DADS groups (
DADS down-regulated RAF/MEK/ERK pathway in ECA109 xenograft tumor.
The protein expression levels of RAF1, MEK1, phosphor-MEK1 (p-MEK1), ERK1/2 and p-ERK1/2 from the negative control group, 20 mg/kg DADS group and 40 mg/kg DADS group were assessed by western blot analysis.
The RAF/mitogen-activated protein kinase/extracellular signal-regulated kinase (RAF/MEK/ERK) pathway plays a prominent role in the regulation of cell growth [
It is known that NGF induces the activation (phosphorylation) of MEK (MAPK kinase) 1/2, which then phosphorylates ERK1/2 [
For example, NBT induces neurite outgrowth of PC12D cells, which were subcloned from the original PC12 cells, by activating a cAMP/PKA/MEK/ERK-dependent pathway [
Furthermore, melatonin activates the insulin receptor-mediated phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PIK3) and serine/threonine protein kinase B (PKB/Akt) and the mitogen-activated extracellular signal-regulated kinase kinase (MEK/ERK) pathway by inducing phosphorylation of the tyrosine moiety of the insulin receptor substrates 1 and 2 (IRS) in rat islets and INS-1 cells [
Previous studies have showed that the MEK1-ERK2 signaling pathway is involved in the regulation of cell survival [
Rabbit anti-human phosphorylation HSP27 (Ser-82), ras, raf, ERK1/2, MEK1/2, p38MAPK and MAPKAPK2 antibodies were purchased from Cell Signaling Technology (Danvers, MA, USA).
Our data implicate that the phosphorylation of HSP27 is probably induced by the pathway, including EGF/EGFR, Ras/Raf/MEK1/2/ERK1/2, as well as p38 MAPK.
Validation of Ras, Raf, ERK1/2, MEK1/2, p38MAPK and MAPKAPK2 by Western blotting analysis.
As a result, the activated Raf-1 stimulates the MEK1/2 and its cascade which then phosphorylate the MAPK protein ERK1/2.
It was found that the formation of CNV might have been inhibited or stopped by downregulation of the activity of the crucial key downstream effectors, Akt and ERK, of the PI3K/Akt and MEK/ERK pathway [
In conclusion, the data presented here provide the first evidence that(R,R) ZX-5 has positive effects on NOS (eNOS and iNOS) and choroidal blood flow via the MEK/ERK- and PI3K/Akt -dependent signaling pathways.
One of the first reports on clinical use of a PI3K/AKT/mTOR inhibitor in ovarian cancer looked at the utility of the dual-targeting strategy involving PI3K/AKT/mTOR and RAF/MEK/ERK pathways [
Tpl2 has a major role in the activation of ERK1/2 through its direct substrate, the mitogen-activated extracellular signal-regulated kinase (MEK, a MAP2K) [
Tpl2 promoted tumorigenesis and cancer progression via the phosphorylation of Pin1 resulting cyclin D1 up-regulation and induced EMT by IL-22/MEK/ERK, JNK/STAT3/AP-1 signaling pathway in breast cancer [
Tpl2 facilitated tumor growth by PAUF-mediated MEK/ERK signaling pathway, resulting in increasing expression of pro-tumorigenic cytokines [
Elevated Tpl2 activity promoted CRPC growth via activation of MEK/ERK and NF-kB signaling pathway [
Tpl2 plays an important role in promoting IL-17A-induced tumorigenesis in colon cancer, cervical cancer and breast cancer via IL-17A-activated Tpl2 signaling pathway to function upstream of MEK/ERK and JNK/c-Jun [
Finally, Tpl2 participates as an upstream of the MEK-ERK pathway in the positive regulation effects of IL-12 on the functions of human effector memory CD8
Although small molecule inhibitors exist for the targeting of the Tpl2-MEK-ERK pathway, side effects could be a serious issue.
The Ras/Raf/MEK/ERK system is definitely the best characterized MAPK pathway.
After that, they phosphorylate the MAPKKs (MEK1 and MEK2), that activate ERK1 and ERK2 in the cytosol, which are then translocated into the nucleus, where they can phosphorylate numerous substrates [
Activated HER-2 can transduce its signals via p52Shc (blocked by dominant-negative (DN) HER-2 cDNA transfection or an HER-2 inhibitor, AG879) to activate the downstream ERK/MAPK pathway (blocked by p52Shc Y317F mutant cDNA transfection or an MEK inhibitor, PD 98059 and U0126) through Ras/Raf mediation.
The mitogen-activated protein/extracellular signal-regulated kinase (MEK)/extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK), mitogen-activated protein kinase (MKK)3/6/p38 and MKK4/c-Jun 
To this respect, an increased phosphorylation of MEK3/JNK and ERK1/2 by the reduced expression of miR-214 and increase of miR-133b has been shown.
Finally, inhibition of ERK MAPK phosphorylation with a selective MEK1 inhibitor (PD98059) significantly reduced isoflurane-mediated (2.5% for 3 hours) induction of SK1 mRNA in EA.hy926 human endothelial cells (
Inhibition of ERK MAPK phosphorylation with PD98059 (a selective MEK1 inhibitor) significantly reduced isoflurane-mediated induction of SK1 mRNA in EA.hy926 human endothelial cells.
To test whether ERK activity is necessary and sufficient for EGF stimulated IC-2C phosphorylation, we co-transfected mRFP-tagged IC-2C with either empty vector or constitutively active (ca) MEK1 in which the sites of activating phosphorylation, Serines 218 and 222, are mutated to phosphomimetic aspartate residues [
These observations indicate that some intermediate chain is likely phosphorylated on Serine 81 by kinases distinct from ERK and/or resides in compartments not accessed by the MEK inhibitors.
Sorafenib is an orally active multikinase inhibitor that blocks intracellular kinases in the Raf/MEK/ERK pathway that are involved in tumor proliferation, such as Raf-1, as well as those promoting angiogenesis, including VEGFR-2, VEGFR-3, FLT, PDGFR-
RAS can stimulate migration and proliferation in a ROS-dependent manner in colon cancer cells, and RAS signaling upregulates NOX1 expression via the MEK-ERK-GATA-6 pathway.
In addition, gallic acid also acts by phosphorylating and activating melanogenesis inhibitory proteins such as Akt and mitogen-activated protein kinase (MEK)/extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK).
Using inhibitors against PI3K/Akt (LY294002) or MEK/ERK-specific (PD98059), the hypopigmentation effect was suppressed, and the gallic acid-initiated activation of MEK/ERK and PI3K/Akt was also revoked.
Recent studies have suggested that the MEK-ERK kinase cascade and the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)/Akt pathway are involved in the regulation of melanin synthesis [
As gallic acid decreases the intracellular cAMP levels and reduces melanin synthesis by increasing the phosphorylation and activation of PI3K/Akt and MEK/ERK, we further investigated whether the effects of gallic acid on tyrosinase activity and melanin synthesis are responsible for MEK/ERK and PI3K/Akt phosphorylation.
We studied the melanin content and tyrosinase activity in B16F10 cells co-treated with gallic acid and PI3K/Akt-specific inhibitor (LY294002) or MEK/ERK-specific inhibitor (PD98059).
In order to ensure that these signaling factors are responsible for the gallic acid-induced inhibitory effects on melanogenesis, we blocked PI3K/Akt or MEK/ERK signaling in the presence of gallic acid and evaluated melanin production and tyrosinase activity in B16F10 cells.
Our results demonstrated that the specific PI3K inhibitor, LY294002, significantly retrieved melanin production and tyrosinase activity, and the MEK/ERK inhibitor, PD98059, markedly inhibited the gallic acid suppressive effects on MITF, tyrosinase, TRP-1, and Dct expression.
The findings support that gallic acid may inhibit the signaling pathways related to melanogenesis, which include the inhibition of MITF-tyrosinase signaling, in particular the activation of PI3K/Akt or MEK/ERK signaling.
In this study, gallic acid was found to inhibit melanogenesis in B16F10 cells by inhibiting the expressions of MITF, tyrosinase, TRP1, and Dct, which are mediated by PI3K/Akt or MEK/ERK phosphorylation.
These data indicate the possible mechanisms of inhibitory effects of gallic acid against melanogenesis may contain the decrease in cAMP as well as PI3K/Akt and MEK/ERK phosphorylation.
Recovery effect of co-treatment with PI3K/Akt or MEK/ERK specific inhibitors and gallic acid on cellular melanin content, cellular tyrosinase activity and melanogenesis-related proteins expression in B16F10 cells.
Similar to the raf/MEK/ERK (MEK/ERK) pathway, the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)/Akt pathway is also constitutively active at a low level in epidermal keratinocytes and both ERK and Akt are upregulated by UVR [
Acupuncture can increase the expression of BDNF (Brain-derived neurotrophic factor) via PI3K/Akt (Phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate 3-kinase) and MEK/ERK1/2 (extracellular-signal-regulated kinases) signaling pathway by activating the tropomyosin receptor kinase B (TrkB), a high affinity catalytic receptor for several neurotrophins that induce the activation of survival signaling pathway.
Anti-phospho-ERK1/2, phospho-JNN, phospho-p38, phospho-Akt polyclonal antibodies, LY294002 (PI3 kinase inhibitor) U0126 (MEK1/2 inhibitor), SB202190 (p38 inhibitor) and SP600125 (JNK inhibitor) were purchased from Cell Signaling Technology (Beverly, MA, USA).
Despite the data indicating the full activation of ERK1/2 and MEK requires EGFR endocytosis, that may just be the start of the story.
Recent studies indicate that PI3K/Akt and MEK/ERK signalling pathways are important intracellular mediators in ER-induced phase II enzymes in intestinal epithelial Caco-2 cells [
The involvement of the PI3K, TOR or ERK signaling pathways in the mechanism by which insulin activates DNA synthesis of silk gland cells was analyzed by investigating the effects of the specific inhibitors of PI3K (LY294002), MEK (U0126) or TORC1 (rapamycin) on the DNA synthesis induced by insulin 
The mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK)/ERK kinase (MEK) inhibitor (U0126) and the TORC1 inhibitor (rapamycin) were purchased from Calbiochem (San Diego, CA, USA).
An increase in sodium-iodide symporter (NIS) gene expression has been demonstrated through the inhibition of MEK/ERK and SAPK/JNK cytoplasmic pathways, individually and in combination, suggesting that blocking these pathways is the mechanism by which sunitinib exerts its direct antiproliferative effect [
Most of them act on the mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase (MEK or MAPK/ERK kinase), whose substrates are ERK1/2. 
As MEK1/2 are specific kinases that mediate the activation of extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase 1/2 (ERK1/2), we detected the effect of TIPP on the level of phosphorylation of MEK1/2.
It is known that neurotrophic factors induce the activation of MEK1/2, which are MAPK kinases that phosphorylate ERK1/2 [
Effects of MEK inhibitors on HMF-induced ERK2 activation in cultured rat cortical neurons.
The RAS/MEK/ERK and PI3K/Akt pathways are well known to be involved in mechanisms of radioresistance [
Multiple lines of evidence support the interaction between Hh signaling and RAS/MEK/ERK and PI3K/Akt pathways.
The PI3K/AKT and RAS/MEK/ERK pathways have been shown to non-canonically activate Gli1 in a Smo-independent manner [
Mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase MEK (MEK MAPKK)-driven phosphorylation of the Tyr and Thr residues within the activation loop of ERK MAPK (mitogen-activated protein kinase ERK) was shown to be dramatically affected by macromolecular crowding with PEG 6000 [
Upon its activation, Raf transmits the signal further downstream to MEK1/2 (MAPK/ERK kinases 1 and 2), which are the second tier in the MAPK cascade.
Regarding the substrate specificities within this pathway, ERK and MEK are in great contrast to each other.
While ERK1/2 are the only described substrates of MEK1/2 so far, ERK1/2 has a myriad of substrates in the cytosol and the nucleus.
For example, ERK1/2 is able to phosphorylate MEK1 at Thr292 and Thr386 
Whereas it constitutively associates with MEK, it interacts with C-Raf and ERK only upon growth factor stimulation [
It seems that the endocytosis of the activated receptors and their associated signaling complexes is crucial for maximal MAPK activation, and activated Ras, C-Raf, MEK1 and ERK1 can be found on endosomes [
For example, MORG1 binds to Raf, MEK and ERK, but also associates with the MP1 scaffold in the endosomes [
Flotillin-1, which is found in hetero-oligomers with flotillin-2, is a scaffolding protein for C-Raf, MAPK/ERK kinase 1 (MEK1) and extracellular signal-regulated kinase 2 (ERK2) independently of kinase suppressor of Ras (KSR1).
Apart from inducing apoptosis, signaling partners like the MEK/ERK pathway or the protein kinase C (PKC) can activate salvage programs such as cell proliferation that do not ameliorate, but rather worsen their outcome.
The MEK/ERK pathway is the main signal transduction cascade involved.
In 1997, England found that the application of the MEK inhibitor PD98059 inhibited hippocampal LTP, the first evidence of a role of ERK signaling in synaptic plasticity.
In addition, PD98059 significantly induced reduction of p-MEK, p-ERK, and p-Stat3 proteins (
Results of the CFU assay clearly indicated that astaxanthin can actively improve proliferation of NPCs, which was associated with significant activation of PI3K and its downstream mediators, p-Rac, p-c-Raf, p-MEK, p-ERK, p-Akt, p-mTOR, and p-Stat3 in a time-dependent manner.
Effects of LicoA on sUV-dependent phosphorylation of the Akt/ mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR), mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase (MEK)1/ extracellular signal-regulated kinases (ERKs)/p90 ribosomal protein S6 kinase (RSK), c-Jun 
MKK6, MKK7, and MEK are upstream of p38, JNK, and ERK, respectively.
To further study the mechanism of rhOPN-induced FoxM1 expression, additions of U0126 (a specific inhibitor of mitogen activated protein kinase kinase (MEK)/extracellular signal regulated kinase (ERK); 10
Rabbit anti-ERK, phospho-ERK 1/2, glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH) antibodies and U0126 (a specific inhibitor of MEK/ERK; 10
It is known that PI3K/AKT/mTOR signaling is a complex process, which interacts with the RAS/RAF/MEK/ERK pathway.
Since the inhibition by a MEK or PKC inhibitor of ERK/CREB phosphorylation elicited by EDN1 stimulation attenuates the EDN1-stimulated pigmentation of HEEs, we asked if the WSE elicits an abrogating effect on the EDN1-stimulated pigmentation in HEEs.
Upon hormonal release from Pro-I arrest, maturing oocytes undergo activation of the MAPK cascade involving protein expression and/or enzymatic activation of Mos (MAPKKK), MEK (MAPKK), ERK (MAPK), and RSK.
All of these syndromes are associated with autosomal-dominant germline mutations within either the core components (Ras, B-Raf, Raf-1, MEK) of the Ras-ERK1/2 pathway or its modulators (NF1, SHP2, SOS, and Spred).
Analysis of survival pathways downstream of Syk showed that BAFF-induced activation of ERK and Akt is decreased in the absence of Syk, and genetic rescue experiments showed that the survival of Syk-deficient B cells could be enhanced by ectopic expression of caMEK1 or by deletion of PTEN.
This may stem from the upregulation of both the insulin receptor and insulin-like growth factor receptor, which promotes a dual survival and proliferation advantage through targets of the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase/serine/threonine kinase AKT signaling pathway and activation of the mitogen kinases, MEK, and ERK, respectively [
IGFR - insulin-like growth factor receptor, EGFR - epidermal growth factor receptor, FGFR - fibroblast growth factor receptor, MAPK mitogen-activated protein kinases, MAPKK - MAPK kinases, MAPKKK - MAPKK kinases, DLK - Dual leucine zipper bearing kinase, MEK - Mitogen-activated protein kinase/ERK kinase, ERK - extracellular signal-related kinase, JNK - c-Jun-N-terminal kinases, PI3K- phosphoinositol 3-kinase, PIP - phosphatidylinositol phosphate, AR - androgen receptor, P - phosphorylation, ARE - androgen response elements
Multiple signaling pathways are involved in cell growth and apoptosis, including the Ras/Raf/MEK/ERK1/2 signaling pathway, which is central for transporting the complex signals received by the cell surface receptors to transcription factors in the nucleus.
Extracellular signal regulated protein kinase 1/2 is a key physiological substrate of MEK; MEK1 kinase can cause double phosphorylation of threonine and tyrosine at ERK1/2 residues to activate ERK1/2; activation of ERK1/2 can subsequently lead to phosphorylation of downstream transcription factors, such as p90Rsk kinase, CREB, and c-Myc.
Our data showed that the expression levels of P-ERK1/2 and P-STAT3 proteins in the Ras/Raf/MEK/ERK1/2 and JAK-STAT3 signaling pathways were significantly reduced 48 hours after 

('LMO2', 'RUNX1', 'increases')
It is well known that a number of factors help to promote the differentiation of erythrocytes and megakaryocytes, including FOG-1, NF-E2, RUNX1, SCL/tal, LMO2, EKLF, and c-Myb (
Most of these genes, including NF-E2, RUNX1, LMO2, c-Myb, and FOG-1, were expressed in both U937-mock and U937-NDRG2 cells.

('RAF1', 'BRAF', 'binds')
Mutations in the PTPN11, SOS1, RAF1, KRAS, NRAS, and BRAF genes cause Noonan syndrome.
The PTPN11, SOS1, RAF1, KRAS, NRAS, and BRAF genes all provide instructions for making proteins that are important in signaling pathways needed for the proper formation of several types of tissue during development.
Paired-end transcriptome sequencing identified several other rearrangements involving genes of the RAF kinase pathway: SLC45A3-BRAF, AGTRAP-BRAF, ESRP1-RAF1, EPB41-BRAF and RAF1-ESRP1 [

('CREB1', 'JUN', 'increases')
NFKB1, JUNB, and CREB1 are central transcription factors of macrophage activation

('MYC', 'MAX', 'increases')
Ubiquitylation of MYC by ARF-BP1 promotes transcriptional activity of MYC/MAX heterodimers (green arrow).

('NF1', 'RUNX1', 'increases')
Deregulation of miR-223 and miR-222-221 by RUNX1-ETO is known to affect their targets, NF1A and KIT.

('EPH', 'EPHR', 'binds')
PARAMETERS STUDIED FOR THE NEPHROPROTECTIVE ACTIVITY OF ETHANOL EXTRACTS OF 
PHYTOCONSTITUENTS WITH ARI PROPERTY STUDIED IN DIABETIC NEPHROPATHY
ANALYSIS OF PRESCRIPTIONS IN DIABETIC NEPHROPATHY
DISTRIBUTION OF DRUGS IN DIFFERENT CATEGORIES BASED ON ATC CLASSIFICATION PRESCRIBED IN DIABETIC NEPHROPATHY

