/lfs1/sudharao/PubMedCentral-Corpus/articles.O-Z/Rev_Saude_Publica/Rev_Saude_Publica_2015_Feb_19_49_2.nxml
('ATF3', 'JUN', 'increases')
Marked up-regulation of expression of JUN and ATF3 (

('Raf', 'MEK', 'adds_modification')
Studies in cell lines have identified that JSRV Env activates a number of cellular signaling pathways involved in neoplastic transformation, including the Akt-mTOR and Ras-Raf-MEK-ERK pathways (reviewed by [
The ITAM is a critical component of the CD3-induced T cell signaling pathway, known to activate cells via the Raf/MEK/ERK signaling cascade.
In granulosa cells, B-Raf, Rap-1 and MEK are constitutively active and lead to ERK phosphorylation.
The decrease in p-MEK1 a kinase up-stream of p-ERK1 might have led to the down-stream inhibition as well as may lead to B-Raf kinase inhibition [
An increasing body of data indicates that the PI3K/AKT- and Ras/Raf/MEK/ERK-mediated signaling pathways may govern EGFR-mediated radioresistance [
In this pathway IGF-1R activates the adaptor proteins, She and
Grb2, leading to activation of Ras, Raf, MEK1/2, and ERK1/2, which results in cell
proliferation.
Many signal molecules, including caveolin-1, tyrosine kinase, Raf, MEK1/2, and transient receptor potential canonical (TRPC) accumulate in the caveolae [
ERK1/2 belongs to the MAPK family and locates downstream of the cascade of Ras/Raf/MEK kinase.
Further researches suggest an enhanced Raf/MEK/ERK effect upon PI3K/AKT activation [
ERK activation is mediated by at least three different pathways: a Raf/MEK-dependent pathway, a PI3K/Raf-independent pathway that strongly activates MEK, and a third undetermined pathway that directly activates ERK proteins 
[

('RUNX2', 'RUNX1', 'increases')
The three mammalian RUNX proteins (RUNX1, RUNX2, RUNX3) share a highly conserved 128 amino acid DNA binding domain [

('Ca2+', 'PKC', 'increases_activity')
Since 80K-H is a Ca2+-sensor recently implicated in the regulation of both inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor and transient receptor potential (TRP) cation channel activities, its detection in sperm represents the first direct signaling link between PKC and store-operated calcium channels identified in human sperm.
The non-canonical Wnt pathways, the JNK/AP1 dependent, PCP and the PKC/CAMKII/NFAT dependent Ca2+ pathway (just like the canonical Wnt pathway) become activated following Wnt-Fz receptor binding [

('PI3K', 'PDK1', 'increases_activity')
In particular, the PI3K pathway can activate serum and glucocorticoid-induced kinanse-1 (SGK1), a portent regulator of ENaC, by phosphorylation of PDK1 and mTORC2 [

('DAG', 'PKC', 'increases_activity')
A possible activation of protein kinase C (PKC) through diacylglycerol (DAG) has also been suggested [

('RUNX1', 'RUNX2', 'increases')
The three mammalian RUNX proteins (RUNX1, RUNX2, RUNX3) share a highly conserved 128 amino acid DNA binding domain [

('JUN', 'STAT1', 'increases')
They included several genes such as NR2F1, PNN, Smad4, Smad5, STAT5B, JUN, TGIF2, and ATF1 that were over-expressed while RUNX3, STAT1, STAT6, EGR3, GAS7, Smad1, and EDF1 were underexpressed in leiomyomas as compared to keloid/incisional scars.

('HSF1', 'JUN', 'increases')
Three examples in which phosphorylation of the TF inhibits DNA binding and TF activation are HSF1, SP1 and c-JUN.

('MEK', 'ERK', 'adds_modification')
The BRAF gene encodes a serine/threonine protein kinase of the RAS/RAF/MEK/ERK kinase pathway and it is also involved in CRC carcinogenesis.
VASP: vasodilator-stimulated phosphoprotein; CaMK1: calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase-1; ERK: extracellular signal-regulated kinases; MEK / MKK: mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase; FAK: focal adhesion kinase.
JSRV: Jaagsiekte sheep retrovirus; Env: Envelope; PI3K: phosphatidyl inositol 3-kinase; ERK: extracellular signal regulated kinase; STAT3: signal transducer of activator of transcription 3; PTEN: phosphatase and tensin homologue; MAPK: mitogen-activated protein kinase; MMP: matrix metalloproteinase; SCID: severe combined immunodeficiency; TIMP: tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase; HYAL2: hyaluronidase 2; MEK: mitogen-activated protein kinase/extracellular signal-regulated kinase
Studies in cell lines have identified that JSRV Env activates a number of cellular signaling pathways involved in neoplastic transformation, including the Akt-mTOR and Ras-Raf-MEK-ERK pathways (reviewed by [
The ITAM is a critical component of the CD3-induced T cell signaling pathway, known to activate cells via the Raf/MEK/ERK signaling cascade.
In granulosa cells, B-Raf, Rap-1 and MEK are constitutively active and lead to ERK phosphorylation.
In contrast to the marked inhibitory effect on phosphoproteins expression seen in HESC, sPIF did not affect recombinant kinases involved in the MAPK pathway ERK1,2, MEK-1, p-38-MAPK, or NFkB activity 
The decrease in p-MEK1 a kinase up-stream of p-ERK1 might have led to the down-stream inhibition as well as may lead to B-Raf kinase inhibition [
Perhaps the most crucial signaling node identified in our studies is the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK)/extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) or MEK pathway.
The MEK/ERK pathway is upstream of many of the other signaling nodes identified in our analysis, which indicates that it may be a master regulator of the majority of the signaling pathways and cascades involved in the pathogenesis of endometriosis and, therefore, highly important as a potential therapeutic target [
Selumetinib and other MEK/ERK inhibitors are being primarily developed and studied for cancer treatment.
Our network analysis identified the STAT proteins, the SMAD transcription factors, and the MEK/ERK pathways as central regulators for the pathophysiological processes that drive development of endometriosis.
Extracellular regulated kinase kinase (MEK) acts upstream of ERK1/2 to phosphorylate and activate ERK1/2 [
An increasing body of data indicates that the PI3K/AKT- and Ras/Raf/MEK/ERK-mediated signaling pathways may govern EGFR-mediated radioresistance [
Moreover, we investigated whether EGFr-phospho-Akt and EGFr-MEK-ERK pathways can induce GBM radioresistance using inhibitors of activation of ERK (PD098059) and Akt (wortmannin).
These results indicate that the PI3K-Akt and MEK-ERK pathways triggered by EGFr confer GBM radioresistance.
Moreover, we investigated whether EGFr-phospho-Akt and EGFr-MEK-ERK pathways can promote GBM radioresistance.
Thus, we further examined whether the MEK-ERK cascade was involved in the transduction of the signals generated by EGFr in response to irradiation.
In summary, the results of the current study demonstrate that EGFr signaling mediated by MEK-ERK and PI3K-Akt is involved in the response of GBM spheroids to radiation.
Thus, we can propose that MEK-ERK and PI3K-Akt signaling are associated to protective effects against radiation induced cell death in radioresistant GBMs.
In conclusion, our findings indicate that the PI3K-Akt and MEK-ERK pathways may have a critical role in radiosensitivity of GBM cells.
Therefore, selective inhibitors that specifically target PI3K-Akt and MEK-ERK signaling may have important therapeutic implications when used in combination with radiation in the treatment of GBM patients.
Thus, the MEK1-ERK1/2 pathway may be the first identified signaling pathway capable of specifically directing the mode of cardiomyocyte hypertrophy.
In this pathway IGF-1R activates the adaptor proteins, She and
Grb2, leading to activation of Ras, Raf, MEK1/2, and ERK1/2, which results in cell
proliferation.
ERK1/2 belongs to the MAPK family and locates downstream of the cascade of Ras/Raf/MEK kinase.
Further researches suggest an enhanced Raf/MEK/ERK effect upon PI3K/AKT activation [
Furthermore, we examined the involvement of P38 mitogen-actiated protein kinase (MAPK) or MEK/ERK1/2 pathway in this mechanism.
No significant differences in the cell viability were found at these concentrations in the experiments using JNK, MAPK and MEK/ERK1/2 inhibitors (Additional file 
To determine if ERK activation in response to BCG resulted in production of nitric oxide, cells were pre-treated with U0126, an inhibitor of the upstream kinases MEK-1 and MEK-2 required for ERK activation.
In this study, we found that NO donation by NOR-1 activated ERK1/2 but not p38 and this ERK1/2 activation was inhibited by several types of PKC inhibitors and by MEK inhibitor, PD98059 (figure 
Saline or lipopolysaccharide (LPS, 6 mg/kg of body weight) was administered intratracheally with a 1-hour pretreatment with SP600125 (a JNK inhibitor; 30 mg/kg, IO), or PD98059 (an MEK/ERK inhibitor; 30 mg/kg, IO).
Non-phospho-antibodies detect total levels of endogenous unphosphorylated MEK and ERK.
pMEK antibody signals were normalized against total MEK, while pERK, and pJNK antibody signals were normalized against total ERK.
We tested for cross-reactivity with guinea pig and found bands specifically labeled for the unphosphorylated and phosphorylated forms of MEK, the unphosphorylated and phosphorylated forms of ERK, and pJNK.
Expression of phosphorylated MEK (pMEK) was normalized to total MEK, phosphorylated ERK (pERK), and phosphorylated JNK (pJNK) were normalized to total ERK expression in fetal lungs from the same experimental conditions.
Cav-BC was as effective as CSD in inhibiting fibroblast collagen I and ASMA expression and MEK/ERK signaling.
Cav-C and Cav-AB also inhibited collagen I expression, but in many cases did not affect ASMA or MEK/ERK.
In order to identify CSD subdomains that may be more useful than full-length CSD in treating human diseases, here we have compared the ability of CSD and several subdomains and mutated versions (each attached to the Antennapedia Internalization Sequence) to reverse effects associated with low caveolin-1 on the behavior of monocytes (migration toward CXCL12; expression of CXCR4 and F-actin and Smad 2/3 activation; differentiation into fibrocytes) and fibroblasts (collagen I and ASMA expression, MEK/ERK activation).
To determine whether these same amino acids are critical in the ability of CSD to regulate monocyte migration and differentiation and to regulate collagen I, pERK, pMEK, and ASMA expression in fibroblasts, we compared the activities of CSD and the mutated versions of CSD described as 92A and 90-92A.
We previously reported that collagen I expression and MEK/ERK signaling in fibroblasts (both NLF and SLF) is inhibited by CSD but that ASMA expression is only inhibited by CSD in cells expressing it at high levels (i.e.
The development of more specific MEK-ERK and JNK-targeted drugs would support this approach to treat T cell dominated diseases such as asthma.
Phosphorylation of MEK1 was assayed to determine the mechanism of LTA-induced ERK1/2 activation (Figure 

ERK activation is mediated by at least three different pathways: a Raf/MEK-dependent pathway, a PI3K/Raf-independent pathway that strongly activates MEK, and a third undetermined pathway that directly activates ERK proteins 
[
Moreover, the signal-transducing mechanisms of LTA-caused regulation of SP-A expression arise through the cascade phosphorylations of MEK1 and ERK1/2.
Soluble core antigen has been shown to inhibit human T cell responses via the complement receptor, gC1qR, which interestingly involved an inhibition of the ERK/MEK MAPK signaling pathway in these T cells [
In parallel, the activation of PKC leads to the stimulation of MEK1/2 inducing the phosphorylation of ERK1/2.
We and others previously demonstrated that thrombin promotes human PAVSM cell proliferation via ERK1/2 signaling while PDGF acts via activation of two major pro-proliferative pathways, PI3K-mTOR and MEK-ERK1/2 [

