/nfs/nlg/semmt/projects/bigmech/bio-resources/PubMedCentral-Corpus/articles.C-H/Eye_(Lond)/Eye_(Lond)_2014_Dec_3_28(12)_1502-1510.nxml
('STAT1', 'EN1', 'increases')
Taken together, the data indicate that MEN1 contributes to STAT1-activated gene expression in a novel manner that includes defining the transcription start site and RNA processing.
In this report, we demonstrate that during STAT1-triggered gene activation, depletion of the Set1-like MLL1/MLL2 complex component MEN1 is associated with disruption of the TSS at the 
The results of this study suggest a different and more complicated function for MEN1 in STAT1-activated transcription than has been reported thus far for MEN1 during the inducible expression of other genes.

('Raf', 'MEK', 'adds_modification')
The Ras/Raf/mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase (MEK)/extracellular signal-regulated (ERK) cascade transmits signals from the cell surface receptors to the nucleus and regulates cell cycle progression, cell proliferation, survival, differentiation and transformation.
The Ras/Raf/MEK/ERK pathway has a well-defined role in cancer biology and has become an important target in the development of cancer therapeutics [
MEK has a critical position in the Ras/Raf/MEK/ERK pathway with few direct upstream activators (e.g.
The main goal of our study was to explore whether the effects of MEK/Raf inhibitors in humans revealed with [
This study shows that in RO5126766-sensitive cells MEK and Raf inhibition results in a rapid decrease in [
Since Ras activates the Raf-MEK1-ERK1/2 pathway, we also tested for activation of ERK1/2 by examining its phosphorylation status.
In addition, insulin activated the downstream signaling pathways (PI3K/AKT and Ras-Raf-MEK/ERK) in C4-2 cells.
(6) Inhibitors of Ras-Raf-MEK-MAPK pathway (MEK inhibitor AZD6244, combined with fulvestrant after progression on aromatase inhibitor in NCT01160718).
In addition to activating PI3K and Akt, EGFR activation triggers Src-mediated phosphorylation of paxillin on tyrosine residues, which promotes Raf/MEK/Erk activation.
MAPKs (Erk) are phosphorylated and activated by MAPK-kinases (MAPKKs), (MEK1/2), which in turn are phosphorylated and activated by MAPKK-kinases (MAPKKKs), (Raf).
Therefore, we studied the phosphorylation of Erk1/2, a MAP kinase with an important role in the classical Raf-MEK-Erk pathway.
The C-Raf protein kinase is a pivotal component of the Ras-RAF-MAPK pathway that couples extracellular signaling to the cytoplasmic kinases MEK and ERK, which in turn activate various transcription factors [
The EGFR/Ras/Raf/MEK/ERK signaling has been a hot area of research in identification of novel targets to assist in understanding of oncogenesis and discovery of new cancer treatment options [
HRT inhibits the Raf/MEK/ERK1/2 phosphorylation in early stage of 3T3-L1 adipocytes differentiation.
The result shows that the phosphorylation of the Ras, Raf-1, MEK-1, and ERK-1/2 proteins and the expression of the corresponding mRNAs in the colon tissue of CD rat were significantly higher than the normal control group.
Both treatments with mild moxibustion and with herb-separated moxibustion significantly reduced the expression of the Ras, Raf-1, MEK-1, and ERK-1/2 proteins and Ras and Raf-1 mRNA.
It indicates that Ras, Raf-1, MEK-1, and ERK-1/2 are involved in the process of intestinal fibrosis in CD rats.
Moxibustion can downregulate the abnormal expression of colonic Ras, Raf-1, MEK-1, and ERK-1/2 protein and mRNA levels in CD intestinal fibrosis in rats.
As an upstream protein in the Raf-MEK-ERK pathway, Ras is the product of the proto-oncogene 
The activated upstream Raf-1 protein kinase can combine with MEK1 and 2 and doubly phosphorylate Tyr and Thr, its two regulatory sites, to activate ERK [
The mechanisms of inhibition of this pathway include the following: (1) the activation of ERK1/2-MAPK is the result of the phosphorylation cascade and can be inactivated by dephosphorylation by the corresponding phosphatases; (2) Raf-1 is the direct substrate of PKA, which can phosphorylate Ser43 of c-Raf, an inhibitory phosphorylation site in the N-terminus of Raf that interacts with Ras, and the phosphorylation of this site can inhibit the binding between RasGTP and the N-terminus of Raf, which blocks the activation of ERK; (3) the phosphatase PP2 can inactivate MEK and ERK via dephosphorylation; (4) activated ERK phosphorylates Sos and Raf while ERK dephosphorylation inactivates them, thereby generates negative feedback regulation of the pathway.
Our experiments studied the regulation of Ras, Raf, MEK, and ERK protein and gene expression by acupuncture in CD intestinal fibrosis in the rat colon.
Our results show that the mRNA levels of Ras, Raf-1, MEK-1, and ERK-1/2 were significantly increased in CD rat intestinal tissue and that the expression of p-Ras, Raf-1, MEK-1, and p-ERK-1/2 proteins in intestinal epithelial cells were also significantly increased.
Medicine-separated moxibustion mild moxibustion, and electroacupuncture treatments could effectively downregulate the expression of p-Ras, Raf-1, MEK-1, and p-ERK-1/2, but different inhibitory effects on Ras, Raf-1, MEK-1, and ERK-1/2 mRNA levels were shown in ERK pathway activity changes.
In this discussion, we propose the following: (1) medicine-separated moxibustion, mild moxibustion, and electroacupuncture can inhibit CD intestinal fibrosis by regulating ERK pathway activity; and (2) the acupuncture-induced inhibition of p-Ras, Raf-1, MEK-1, and p-ERK-1/2 expression may be the key elements in the treatment's inhibition of CD intestinal fibrosis.
In addition, after binding to the high-affinity ErbB2/ErbB3 coreceptor complex, Nrg could potentially activate several distinct signaling pathways, mainly including p21Ras/Raf-1/MEK/Erk cascade [
HR: hybrid receptors; ERK: extracellular regulated kinase; IRS: INSR substrate; MEK: mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase; mTOR: mammalian target of rapamycin; PI3K: Phosphoinositide-3 kinase; PIP2: phosphatidylinositol [4,5]-bisphosphate; PIP3: phosphatidylinositol [3,4, 5]-trisphosphate; PDK1: phosphoinositide-dependent kinase 1; Raf: rapidly fibrosarcoma; Ras: rat sarcoma; Rheb: Ras homolog enriched in brain; TSC: tuberous sclerosis complex.
PAK1 is important for Raf/MEK activation, leading to ERK activation.
Raf kinase inhibitory protein (RKIP) encodes a protein that inhibits Raf-1 (a serine/threonine kinase)-mediated phosphorylation, and thereby the activation of MEK-1 [a mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase kinase that specifically phosphorylates the regulatory threonine and tyrosine residues present in MAP kinases] by Raf-1 (

('BRAF', 'MEK1', 'adds_modification')
One strategy to decrease secondary resistance as well as neo-tumourigenesis associated with anti-BRAF monotherapy is to combine it with an inhibitor of MEK1 and MEK2 downstream from BRAF.
Three Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved agents have demonstrated significant clinical benefits and been approved for use in patients with metastatic melanoma harbouring BRAF mutations: the BRAF inhibitors dabrafenib and vemurafenib and the potent, highly specific inhibitor of MEK1/ MEK2 trametinib.

('Ca2+', 'PKC', 'increases_activity')
Some PCBs perturb Ca2+ homeostasis and cause protein kinase C (PKC) translocation in neuronal cell cultures and in brain homogenate preparations at concentrations where no cytotoxicity is observed, and these systems are necessary for the growth and normal functioning of neurons.
The DAG brings about the association of protein kinase C (PKC) with the plasma membrane where a receptor-mediated increase in Ca2+ cycling across the membrane regulates PKC activity.

('STAT1', 'IRF1', 'increases')
RNA Pol II (Santa Cruz sc-899), STAT1 (Santa Cruz sc-345X) and IRF1 (Santa Cruz sc-497) were from Santa Cruz Biotechnology, Santa Cruz CA USA.

('PI3K', 'PDK1', 'increases_activity')
Active PI3K generates phosphatidylinositol 3,4,5 triphosphate (PIP3), which serves as an anchor for Pleckstrin homology (PH)domain-containing proteins, including both adaptor molecules such as GRB2-associated binding protein 2 (Gab2) and docking protein 1 (Dok1) and kinases such as tec protein tyrosine kinase (Tec), Bruton agammaglobulinemia tyrosine kinase (Btk), phosphoinositide-dependent kinase-1 (PDK1) and v-akt murine thymoma viral oncogene homolog kinase (AKT) [
Thus, our GSA procedure identified the phosphoinositol pool (PI), PDK1 and PI3K as the most promising targets to suppress 
Therefore we focused on testing the effect of PI3K and PDK1 inhibition on the level of Akt phosphorylation in two ovarian carcinoma cell lines, PE04 and OVCAR4.
We stimulated the PE04 and OVCAR4 cells with heregulin after pre-treating them either with LY294002 (PI3K inhibitor) or UCN-01 (PDK1 inhibitor).
Our findings with regard to PI3K and PDK1 as potential drug targets and biomarkers of cancer are consistent with other cancer-related studies (
LY294002 (PI3K inhibitor), the primary antibodies for phospho-PDK1 (p-PDK1, Ser241), total PDK1, phospho-PTEN (p-PTEN, Ser380), total PTEN, phospho-Akt (p-Akt, Ser473), total Akt, phospho-c-Raf (p-c-Raf, Ser259), total c-Raf, phospho-GSK3
Reperfusion after stroke induced dysfunction of PI3K/Akt pathway and the PI3K/Akt inhibition led to dephosphorylation of PDK1, Akt, and GSK3
HR: hybrid receptors; ERK: extracellular regulated kinase; IRS: INSR substrate; MEK: mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase; mTOR: mammalian target of rapamycin; PI3K: Phosphoinositide-3 kinase; PIP2: phosphatidylinositol [4,5]-bisphosphate; PIP3: phosphatidylinositol [3,4, 5]-trisphosphate; PDK1: phosphoinositide-dependent kinase 1; Raf: rapidly fibrosarcoma; Ras: rat sarcoma; Rheb: Ras homolog enriched in brain; TSC: tuberous sclerosis complex.

('DAG', 'PKC', 'increases_activity')
The protein kinase C (PKC) pathway: The mechanism responsible for the activation of PKC by hyperglycemia is related to de novo synthesis of the PKC activator diacylglycerol (DAG) from a stepwise acylation of glycerol 3-phosphate and phosphatidic acid.
The DAG brings about the association of protein kinase C (PKC) with the plasma membrane where a receptor-mediated increase in Ca2+ cycling across the membrane regulates PKC activity.
The C1 domains are the molecular sensors of phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA)/diacylglycerol (DAG) in cPKC and nPKC isoforms.
Atypical PKCs have only one C1 domain and are unable to bind DAG.
Subsequent release of calcium and diacylglycerol activates protein kinase C (PKC) isoforms, as well as guanine exchange factors specific for Rap1, such as calcium and diacylglycerol-regulated guanine nucleotide exchange factor (CALDAG-GEF) [
Effects of cytopiloyne on calcium mobilization, DAG generation, and PKC
The previous reports have shown that the activation of the PLC pathway also produces lipid-soluble 1,2-diacylglycerol (DAG), an endogenous protein kinase C (PKC) activator.
Activation of PKC by treatment with PMA, a DAG analogue, causes receptor phosphorylation and receptor uncoupling from PLC-mediated inositol phospholipid metabolism and results in a loss of Ca
PDE3: phosphodiesterase-3; PKA: protein kinase A; PLC: phospholipase; DAG: diacylglycerol; IP3: inositol trisphosphate; PIP2: phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate; PKC: protein kinase C; PSGL-1: P-selectin glycoprotein ligand-1.
Finally, hyperglycemia can lead to the activation of the diacylglycerol (DAG) protein kinase C (PKC) pathway [
A core-signaling pathway in migration and invasion is the phospholipase C pathway catalyzing the formation of inositol 1,4,5-triphosphate (IP3) and diacylglycerol (DAG) leading to activation of the PKC family 
AT-II: angiotensin-II; DAG: diacylglycerol; PKC: protein kinase C; Thr495 P-eNOS: threonine495-phosphorylated endothelial NO synthase; NO: nitric oxide; O
Role of PKC in vascular function in diabetes (DAG, diacylglycerol; PKC, protein kinase C; ECM,
extracellular matrix; MAPK, mitogen-activated protein kinase; and ET-1, endothelin-1).

('PI3K', 'FAK', 'adds_modification')
How does FAK regulate endothelial proliferation= Previous studies, using fibroblasts, have shown a dominant role for FAK upstream of the PI3K/Akt signalling pathway (Xia et al, 
ERBB4 is overexpressed in ES cell lines derived from advanced tumours as well as in human metastatic ES lesions, and leads to activation of PI3K-Akt, focal adhesion kinase (FAK), and the Rac1 GTPase, a well-established mediator of cell migration and invasion.
Finally, we assessed effects of PI3K and FAK inhibition on ES cell migration and invasion.
Inhibition of either PI3K or FAK moderately but significantly reduced migration and strongly inhibited invasion in CHLA-10 cells 
ERBB4 overexpression activates a novel ERBB4-PI3K-Akt-FAK-Rac1 pathway that stimulates migration and invasion of ES cells, and confers metastatic capacity 
One of the earliest events upon integrin clustering and signaling is autophosphorylation of FAK at Y397, which leads to the recruitment of PI3K to focal adhesion, causing activation of AKT that regulates integrin-mediated cell survival.
In muscle, Akt is activated by the upstream phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K), either induced by receptor binding or by integrin-mediated activation of focal adhesion kinase (FAK), such as in cardiac myocytes (Franchini et al. 
Talin1 localised to the outer ring of the podosome which contains integrins and associated proteins typical of FA, as well as regulatory proteins such as PI3K, Src, Pyk2/FAK (
Thus, it seems that FAK promotes CL1-5 cancer cell migration in concert with the activation of the PI3K/AKT signaling pathways.
Increased phosphorylation of FAK and its downstream targets, Src, ERK1/2, PI3K, and AKT have been shown in A549 lung epithelial cells stimulated by fibronectin.
Consistent with this observation, depletion of FAK by siRNA resulted in the inhibition of Src, ERK1/2, PI3K, and AKT activity [
Mechanistically, we show that this effect of EEAC may occur through inactivation of the ERK1/2 signaling pathway, exerting inhibitory effects on FAK, p-FAK, and Rac-1 protein expressions and inhibiting PI3K, and phospho-Akt levels, thereby decreasing the activities of MMP-2, MMP-9 of CL1-5 cells (
The effect of EEAC is achieved likely through the inhibition of FAK, which regulates Rac-1/MMP-9 expression through MAPK and PI3K/AKT signaling pathways.
The decreased expression and phosphorylation of Src, FAK, and the downstream regulators, PI3K/Akt and MMPs, in cells treated with MCME, is the critical event leading to cell death and antimetastasis in CL1 cells.
Studies have implicated that FAK mediates cell proliferation through upregulation of cyclin D3, PKC, and PI3K/Akt signaling pathways [
To confirm whether the signaling pathways activated by syntenin are associated with increased invasiveness, we evaluated the influence of a p38 inhibitor (SB203580), a PI3K/AKT inhibitor (LY294002) and a FAK inhibitor (PF-573228) on MT1-MMP and MMP2 expression in syntenin-overexpressed cells.
When FAK, p38 and PI3K/AKT were pharmacologically inhibited in NCI-H187 cells, the number of invaded cells in the Matrigel invasion assay did not increase in syntenin-transfected cells, compared with empty vector-transfected cells (
Together, these results suggest that activation of FAK and the p38 MAPK and PI3K/AKT pathways are associated with invasiveness-related syntenin signaling transduction, leading to upregulation of MMP2 and MT1-MMP.
paxillin, FAK, Src, and PI3K), leading to the activation of the Rac-PAK pathway.

('BRAF', 'MEK2', 'adds_modification')
One strategy to decrease secondary resistance as well as neo-tumourigenesis associated with anti-BRAF monotherapy is to combine it with an inhibitor of MEK1 and MEK2 downstream from BRAF.
Three Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved agents have demonstrated significant clinical benefits and been approved for use in patients with metastatic melanoma harbouring BRAF mutations: the BRAF inhibitors dabrafenib and vemurafenib and the potent, highly specific inhibitor of MEK1/ MEK2 trametinib.

('GATA3', 'FOXA1', 'increases')
Analysis of ER, FOXA1, and GATA3 protein expression by immunoblotting in MCF7 GFP-ZNF703 and MCF7 GFP breast cancer cell lines.

('PI3K', 'AKT1', 'adds_modification')
We observed a significant increase in ser473 phosphorylation of AKT1, a well-known downstream effector of PI3K activation and an established downstream event after insulin and IGF-I stimulation and an established indicator of insulin action.

('Raf-1', 'MEK', 'adds_modification')
The result shows that the phosphorylation of the Ras, Raf-1, MEK-1, and ERK-1/2 proteins and the expression of the corresponding mRNAs in the colon tissue of CD rat were significantly higher than the normal control group.
Both treatments with mild moxibustion and with herb-separated moxibustion significantly reduced the expression of the Ras, Raf-1, MEK-1, and ERK-1/2 proteins and Ras and Raf-1 mRNA.
It indicates that Ras, Raf-1, MEK-1, and ERK-1/2 are involved in the process of intestinal fibrosis in CD rats.
Moxibustion can downregulate the abnormal expression of colonic Ras, Raf-1, MEK-1, and ERK-1/2 protein and mRNA levels in CD intestinal fibrosis in rats.
The activated upstream Raf-1 protein kinase can combine with MEK1 and 2 and doubly phosphorylate Tyr and Thr, its two regulatory sites, to activate ERK [
The mechanisms of inhibition of this pathway include the following: (1) the activation of ERK1/2-MAPK is the result of the phosphorylation cascade and can be inactivated by dephosphorylation by the corresponding phosphatases; (2) Raf-1 is the direct substrate of PKA, which can phosphorylate Ser43 of c-Raf, an inhibitory phosphorylation site in the N-terminus of Raf that interacts with Ras, and the phosphorylation of this site can inhibit the binding between RasGTP and the N-terminus of Raf, which blocks the activation of ERK; (3) the phosphatase PP2 can inactivate MEK and ERK via dephosphorylation; (4) activated ERK phosphorylates Sos and Raf while ERK dephosphorylation inactivates them, thereby generates negative feedback regulation of the pathway.
Our results show that the mRNA levels of Ras, Raf-1, MEK-1, and ERK-1/2 were significantly increased in CD rat intestinal tissue and that the expression of p-Ras, Raf-1, MEK-1, and p-ERK-1/2 proteins in intestinal epithelial cells were also significantly increased.
Medicine-separated moxibustion mild moxibustion, and electroacupuncture treatments could effectively downregulate the expression of p-Ras, Raf-1, MEK-1, and p-ERK-1/2, but different inhibitory effects on Ras, Raf-1, MEK-1, and ERK-1/2 mRNA levels were shown in ERK pathway activity changes.
In this discussion, we propose the following: (1) medicine-separated moxibustion, mild moxibustion, and electroacupuncture can inhibit CD intestinal fibrosis by regulating ERK pathway activity; and (2) the acupuncture-induced inhibition of p-Ras, Raf-1, MEK-1, and p-ERK-1/2 expression may be the key elements in the treatment's inhibition of CD intestinal fibrosis.
In addition, after binding to the high-affinity ErbB2/ErbB3 coreceptor complex, Nrg could potentially activate several distinct signaling pathways, mainly including p21Ras/Raf-1/MEK/Erk cascade [
Raf kinase inhibitory protein (RKIP) encodes a protein that inhibits Raf-1 (a serine/threonine kinase)-mediated phosphorylation, and thereby the activation of MEK-1 [a mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase kinase that specifically phosphorylates the regulatory threonine and tyrosine residues present in MAP kinases] by Raf-1 (

('E2F1', 'MYC', 'increases')
MAPK14, AKT1, EP300, HDAC1, TP53, E2F1, SMAD3, GNB1, MYC, and SRC were found to be hubs of the PPIs network of downregulated target genes of the 6 miRNAs.
Among the hubs, EP300, HDAC1, TP53, E2F1, SMAD3, and MYC were involved in the regulation of cell cycle [

('MEK', 'ERK', 'adds_modification')
BRAF together with ARAF and CRAF activates a second protein known as mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase (MEK), which in turn activates extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK).
The Ras/Raf/mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase (MEK)/extracellular signal-regulated (ERK) cascade transmits signals from the cell surface receptors to the nucleus and regulates cell cycle progression, cell proliferation, survival, differentiation and transformation.
The Ras/Raf/MEK/ERK pathway has a well-defined role in cancer biology and has become an important target in the development of cancer therapeutics [
MEK has a critical position in the Ras/Raf/MEK/ERK pathway with few direct upstream activators (e.g.
We previously reported that ERK2 phosphorylates TFEB and, in cells treated with an MEK inhibitor, the TFEB nuclear fraction was increased (
BRAF is a serine-threonine protein kinase component of the RAS/RAF/MEK/extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) signalling pathway and is activated by somatic mutations, giving rise to gain of function in human cancers (Davies et al, 
SMO-independent signal inputs such as RAS-MEK/ERK have been shown to modify the transcriptional activity of GLI proteins (Riobo et al, 
Analysis of RAS/MEK/ERK signalling and JUN activation in human HaCaT keratinocytes in response to various receptor tyrosine kinase (RTK) ligands.
The RAF family member B-RAF is a serine/threonine kinase that is activated by RAS and, in turn, activates the MEK-ERK pathway.
The RAF/MEK/ERK1/2 signalling cascade is both necessary and sufficient for the establishment of oncogenic K-RAS-induced OIS (Lin et al, 
Taken together, these data indicate that PML protein upregulation depends on the RAS/MEK/ERK/mTOR signalling cascade and that eIF4E is the final effector of this signalling cascade when pertaining to PML protein upregulation.
Because DIAPH3 silencing induces amoeboid behaviour and strongly activates ERK, we tested the relevance of MEK/ERK signalling in this scenario.
IGF-2 exerts its effects by binding to the IGF-1 receptor and activating both the PI3K-AKT-mTOR and RAS-RAF-MEK-ERK downstream signalling pathways.
The interaction of C5a with C5aR (CD88) triggers series of responses initiated by interaction of the cytoplasmic tail of C5aR with G-proteins, followed by engagement and activation of the signalling molecules, RAS, RAF-1, MEK1/2 and ERK1/2.
Since Ras activates the Raf-MEK1-ERK1/2 pathway, we also tested for activation of ERK1/2 by examining its phosphorylation status.
Here, we investigated the effect of inhibiting the MAPK/MEK/ERK pathway on T-ALL cell growth.
In the present work, we investigated whether inhibition of the MEK/ERK pathway could hinder T-ALL progression.
As ERK1/2 phosphorylation was decreased in T-ALL blasts but also in MS5 cells following incubation with the MEKi PD184352 (Fig 
Attenuation of the neuritogenic effect of M30 and HLA20 by specific inhibitors of PKC and MAPK/ERK kinase (MEK).
In addition, insulin activated the downstream signaling pathways (PI3K/AKT and Ras-Raf-MEK/ERK) in C4-2 cells.
phosphatase and tensin homologue deleted on chromosome ten (PTEN), and studies have implicated both the MEK/ERK and PI3K pathways in HIF-1 regulation (
Activating mutations within the RAF/MEK/ERK and PI3K pathways have been associated with oncogenic transformation in thyroid cancer.
Reintroduction of PTEN into the FTC-133 line reduced HIF-1 activity and rendered it less susceptible to inhibition via pharmacological manipulation of either the PI3K or RAF/MEK/ERK pathways.
These results indicate that oncoproteins such as RET/PTC activate the MEK/ERK cascade, which then promotes an initial wave of dramatic cell proliferation that, in turn, initiates tumor development, but subsequent development of a solid cancer requires an additional unknown lesion or alteration (
RTK, receptor tyrosine kinase; TRK, tropomyosin-receptor-kinase; RAS, rat sarcoma; RET/PTC, rearranged during transfection/papillary thyroid cancer; BRAF, v-raf murine sarcoma viral oncogene homolog B1; MEK, mitogen-activated protein kinase; ERK, extracellular signal-related kinase.
It is known that exposure to arsenic initiates GF receptor signaling and Ras-dependent activation of MEK1/2 and ERK1/2.
Second, we have extended our mechanistic understanding of the role of the MEK-ERK1/2 pathway in up-regulating the 
MAP kinase signaling via the RAS-RAF-MEK-ERK1/2 pathway is necessary for the DEP MMP-1 response in HBE.
DEPs lead to activation of the membrane-bound GTPase RAS, which in turn switches on the MEK-ERK1/2 MAP kinase via RAF signaling.
Moreover, PP2a can dephosphorylate and inactivate MEK1 and ERK-family kinases, therefore, inhibiting mitogenic signals; this effect is obtained directly and indirectly, through the inactivation of PKC
To gain further insight into the molecular mechanisms by which MK3 controls M/SAPK activity, we studied MEK, an ERK effector kinase.
pFastBAC vector encoding N-terminal hexahistidine-tagged human ERK5 and HA-tagged human MEK5-DD (constitutively active) were used to generate recombinant baculovirus using the Bac-to-Bac system (Invitrogen). 
Dual inhibitors of ERK5 and MEK5.
It is reported that macrolide antibiotics activate MEK/ERK pathway and increases IL-8 production in bronchial epithelial cells [
To study the signaling pathway involved in the pathophysiological processes of NAFLD induced by the elevation of FFA and the effects of SAMC intervention, we measured the phosphorylation status and total expression of MAPK kinases signaling pathways including p38 MAPK, JNK and MEK/ERK, which play important roles in insulin and inflammatory responses [
These intriguing results indicated that C1 extract could specifically interrupt the insulin-signaling cascade between MEK1/2 and ERK1/2.
The C1 extract specifically reduced the activation of ERK1/2 without affecting the degree of phosphorylation of MEK1/2 on two other transformed cell lines HT-1080 and MSV-MDCK-INV cells.
Unsaponifiable fraction C1 exerts a different action on MEK1/2 and ERK1/2 activity in response to insulin in HTC cells.
ERK1/2 and MEK1/2 phosphorylation status in HT-1080 and MSV-MDCK-INV cells after C1 treatment.
RAF kinase phosphorylates and activates MEK, which in turn phosphorylates and activates ERK (extracellular signal-regulated kinase) or mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK).
These are specific inhibitors of p38 MAPK, c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) and MAPK extracellular signaling-regulated kinase (ERK) kinase (MEK), respectively.
We used U0126, a known specific inhibitor of mitogen-activated protein kinase/ERK kinase 1/2 (MEK1/2), to simulate the inhibitory effect of EEBP on ERK1/2.
Since MEK1/2 is known to directly phosphorylate ERK1/2, the inhibitor effectively prevents ERK1/2 activation and its downstream signal transduction.
Additionally, significantly increased interleukin-6, STAT3, MEK5, p-ERK5 and non-cardiomyocyte proliferate signal molecules such as p-MEK and p-ERK, were detected in the cholesterol group but significantly reduced in the Li-Fu formula group.
In order to identify the hyper-trophic factor IL-6, signal transducer and activator of transcription STAT-3 and mitogen-activated protein kinase/ERK (MEK) signaling pathways that were associated with the cardiac hypertrophy induced by hypercholesterol diet, the protein products of IL-6, STAT3, MEK5 and p-ERK5 were measured by western blotting.
In hearts from the cholesterol group, the protein products of IL-6, STAT3, MEK5 and p-ERK5 were significantly increased compared to the hearts of control group (
(a) The representative protein products of IL-6, STAT3, MEK5 and p-ERK5 extracted from the left ventricles of excised hearts in hamsters of control, cholesterol and Li-Fu formula groups were measured by western blotting analysis.
Our proposed hypothesis that cardiac IL-6, MEK-5-ERK-5 and STAT3 hypertrophic pathways and MEK1/2-ERK1/2 non-cardiacmyocyte proliferative pathway are more activated in hyper cholesterol-fed hamster hearts.
The eccentric hypertrophy-related pathway, IL-6-related MEK5-ERK5 pathways and MEK1/2-ERK1/2 non-cardiacmyocyte proliferative pathway may play a part of role for developing eccentric cardiac hypertrophy and pathological changes in hyper cholesterol-fed hamster hearts.
It has been reported that the highly expressed uPA in the epidermis of damaged tissue is regulated by the fibroblast growth factor (FGF-2) which affects MAPK kinase (MEKK-1) and MEKK-1's downstream ERK1/2 for controlling uPA expression [
The results demonstrated that garlic oil treatment down-regulates activities of MAPKs (e.g., p38, JNK and ERK1/2) and IL-6/MEK5/ERK5 signaling pathways, and reduces expressions of pathologic hypertrophy response genes such as ANP and BNP, which contributes to the improvement of cardiac contractile function.
Activated MEK5/ERK5 signaling pathway by IL-6 family cytokines has been reported to lead to the development of eccentric cardiac hypertrophy [
Cardiac hypertrophy-related MAPKs (e.g., p38, JNK and ERK1/2) and IL-6/MEK5/ERK5 signaling pathways were greatly activated, which resulted in the expression of pathologic hypertrophy response markers such as ANP and BNP in the heart of diabetic rats.
A schematic representation showing garlic oil ameliorates cardiac pathologic hypertrophy and subsequent cardiac dysfunction in rats with diabetes by down-regulating the activities of MAPKs (p38, JNK and ERK1/2) and IL-6/MEK5/ERK5 signaling pathways.
Hyperglycemia greatly activates signaling pathways of MAPK (e.g., p38, JNK and ERK1/2) and IL-6/MEK5/ERK5, simultaneously, in the hearts of diabetic rats.
In diabetic rats, treatment involving garlic oil reduces the hyperglycemia-cardiac pathologic hypertrophy and improves the heart function by efficiently de-activating MAPK (p38, JNK and ERK1/2) and IL-6/MEK5/ERK5 signaling pathways.
Highly expressed uPA in the epidermis of damaged tissue is regulated by the FGF-2 that activates MAPK kinase (MEKK-1) and its downstream ERK1/2 [
 Our previous research results indicate that SA-B can inhibit the expression of p-MEK, but have no significant effect on other kinases of ERK pathway [
 SA-B inhibits the phosphorylation of MEK in HSCs, but has no significant effect on phosphorylation of other kinases in ERK signaling.
Cellular responses that elicit neuroprotection may involve CB1 receptors and their link to a variety of signaling elements, including the Gi/Go family of G-proteins, mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK), kinase (MEK1/2), and its substrate, ERK1/2.
IL-6 is involved in multiple intracellular signaling pathways, particularly the MEK5-ERK5 pathway [
The expressions of IL6 and its downstream signaling proteins MEK5, ERK5, and phosphorylated-ERK5 by Western blotting analysis (a) and quantitative analysis (b) in the heart of CCl
The C-Raf protein kinase is a pivotal component of the Ras-RAF-MAPK pathway that couples extracellular signaling to the cytoplasmic kinases MEK and ERK, which in turn activate various transcription factors [
We evaluated the effects of K252a (an inhibitor of tyrosine kinase of high-affinity NGF receptor Trk), AG1478 (an inhibitor of tyrosine kinase of EGF receptor), and U0126 (an inhibitor of MEK (ERK kinase)) on luteolin- or acacetin-induced phosphorylation of ERK 1/2 in PC12 cells (
Luteolin- or acacetin-induced phosphorylation of ERK 1/2 was inhibited by U0126 (MEK phosphorylation inhibitor) treatment, leading to the assumption that the classical MAPK pathway was activated by luteolin or acacetin-stimulation.
Mitogen-activated protein kinase/ERK kinase 1/2 (MEK1/2) is one of the major survival signals in mammalian cells and is known to directly phosphorylate extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (ERK1/2).
Nymphaeol-A inactivates MEK1/2 and ERK1/2 phosphorylation.
The EGFR/Ras/Raf/MEK/ERK signaling has been a hot area of research in identification of novel targets to assist in understanding of oncogenesis and discovery of new cancer treatment options [
HRT inhibits the Raf/MEK/ERK1/2 phosphorylation in early stage of 3T3-L1 adipocytes differentiation.
We also found that RAS-RAF-MEK1-ERK1 signaling is reversibly expressed in sorafenib- or sunitinib-resistant 786-O and ACHN cells.
Anti-MMP-2, anti-MMP-9, anti-Ras, anti-MEK, anti-phosphor-MEK1/2, anti-ERK, and anti-phospho-ERK1/2 antibodies were from Abcam (Cambridge, UK).
Various concentrations of PF significantly reduced protein abundance of Ras, MEK, p-MEK, and p-ERK (
Effects of PF on Ras/MEK/ERK protein expression in PDGF-induced VSMCs.
Ras, MEK, p-MEK, and p-ERK were markedly inhibited in a dose-dependent manner.
Disruption of MEK-ERK signaling pathway is at least partially responsible for baicalein-induced cytotoxicity [
It has been reported that the overexpression and phosphorylation of MEK and ERK may play an important role in the development of human breast cancer [
The result shows that the phosphorylation of the Ras, Raf-1, MEK-1, and ERK-1/2 proteins and the expression of the corresponding mRNAs in the colon tissue of CD rat were significantly higher than the normal control group.
Both treatments with mild moxibustion and with herb-separated moxibustion significantly reduced the expression of the Ras, Raf-1, MEK-1, and ERK-1/2 proteins and Ras and Raf-1 mRNA.
MEK-1 and ERK-1/2 mRNA expression in each treatment group showed a downward trend, and the ERK-1/2 mRNA levels were significantly lower in the mild moxibustion group.
It indicates that Ras, Raf-1, MEK-1, and ERK-1/2 are involved in the process of intestinal fibrosis in CD rats.
Moxibustion can downregulate the abnormal expression of colonic Ras, Raf-1, MEK-1, and ERK-1/2 protein and mRNA levels in CD intestinal fibrosis in rats.
As an upstream protein in the Raf-MEK-ERK pathway, Ras is the product of the proto-oncogene 
The activated upstream Raf-1 protein kinase can combine with MEK1 and 2 and doubly phosphorylate Tyr and Thr, its two regulatory sites, to activate ERK [
Activated MEK1 can phosphorylate ERK1 and ERK2.
The mechanisms of inhibition of this pathway include the following: (1) the activation of ERK1/2-MAPK is the result of the phosphorylation cascade and can be inactivated by dephosphorylation by the corresponding phosphatases; (2) Raf-1 is the direct substrate of PKA, which can phosphorylate Ser43 of c-Raf, an inhibitory phosphorylation site in the N-terminus of Raf that interacts with Ras, and the phosphorylation of this site can inhibit the binding between RasGTP and the N-terminus of Raf, which blocks the activation of ERK; (3) the phosphatase PP2 can inactivate MEK and ERK via dephosphorylation; (4) activated ERK phosphorylates Sos and Raf while ERK dephosphorylation inactivates them, thereby generates negative feedback regulation of the pathway.
Our experiments studied the regulation of Ras, Raf, MEK, and ERK protein and gene expression by acupuncture in CD intestinal fibrosis in the rat colon.
Our results show that the mRNA levels of Ras, Raf-1, MEK-1, and ERK-1/2 were significantly increased in CD rat intestinal tissue and that the expression of p-Ras, Raf-1, MEK-1, and p-ERK-1/2 proteins in intestinal epithelial cells were also significantly increased.
Medicine-separated moxibustion mild moxibustion, and electroacupuncture treatments could effectively downregulate the expression of p-Ras, Raf-1, MEK-1, and p-ERK-1/2, but different inhibitory effects on Ras, Raf-1, MEK-1, and ERK-1/2 mRNA levels were shown in ERK pathway activity changes.
In this discussion, we propose the following: (1) medicine-separated moxibustion, mild moxibustion, and electroacupuncture can inhibit CD intestinal fibrosis by regulating ERK pathway activity; and (2) the acupuncture-induced inhibition of p-Ras, Raf-1, MEK-1, and p-ERK-1/2 expression may be the key elements in the treatment's inhibition of CD intestinal fibrosis.
In this study, we demonstrated that NGR2 possessed neuroprotective effects against 6-OHDA-induced apoptotic death in SH-SY5Y cells by the activation of P90RSK and Nrf2 via MEK1/2-ERK1/2 signaling pathways.
MEK1/2 siRNA, ERK1/2 siRNA, Nrf2 siRNA, and control siRNA were purchased from Santa Cruz Biotechnology (USA).
The primary antibodies used were as follows: rabbit polyclonal anti-p-MEK-1/2 (Ser218/Ser222); rabbit polyclonal anti-MEK-1/2 (12-B); rabbit polyclonal anti-p-ERK1/2 (Thr177/Thr160)-R; mouse monoclonal anti-ERK 1/2 (MK1); rabbit polyclonal anti-p-Rsk-1 (Ser363); mouse monoclonal anti-Rsk (B-4); rabbit polyclonal anti-Nrf2 (C-20); Lamin A (H-102): sc-20680; goat polyclonal anti-p-BAD (Ser112); rabbit polyclonal anti-BAD (C-20); mouse monoclonal anti-Bcl-XL (H-5); rabbit polyclonal anti-BAX (N-20); mouse monoclonal anticytochrome C (6H2); goat polyclonal anticleaved caspase-9 p10 (h331); goat polyclonal anticleaved caspase-3 p11 (h176); mouse monoclonal anti-
MEK1/2 siRNA and ERK1/2 siRNA were used to determine whether P90RSK and Nrf2 activation occurs downstream of the MEK1/2-ERK1/2 pathway.
MEK1/2, which is located upstream of ERK1/2, plays an important role in a variety of biological responses such as cell differentiation, proliferation, survival, and apoptosis [
Although P90RSK and Nrf2 activation was clearly activated by MEK1/2-ERK1/2 signaling pathways, the occurrence of a cross-talk between P90RSK and Nrf2 was not clearly elucidated.
The mechanism of this neuroprotection was associated with NGR2-mediated P90RSK and Nrf2 activation via MEK1/2-ERK1/2 pathways (
NGR2-mediated activation of P90RSK and Nrf2 was dependent of MEK1/2-ERK1/2 pathways but independent on JNK, P38, or PI3K/Akt pathways.
Neuroprotection of NGR2 involved the activation of P90RSK and Nrf2 through MEK1/2-ERK1/2 pathway.
Both MEK1/2 siRNA (a) and ERK1/2 siRNA (b) suppressed NGR2-mediated activation of P90RSK and Nrf2.
(c) NGR2-mediated activity enhancement of HO-1, GSH-PX, and GR was abolished by transfection of SH-SY5Y cells with MEK1/2 siRNA, ERK1/2 siRNA, and Nrf2 siRNA and by MEK inhibitor PD98059.
NGR2 activates P90RSK and Nrf2 via MEK1/2-ERK1/2 pathways.
GP VI: glycoprotein VI; MEK1 mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase; ERK2, extracellular-regulated kinase 2.
The activation of RAS and cardiac injury caused by  chronic ethanol were associated with activation of ERK1/2 in cardiac tissues, and both activation of RAS and activation of ERK1/2 were reduced by inhibition of ERK1/2 signaling through administration of MEK inhibitor PD98059 [
HR: hybrid receptors; ERK: extracellular regulated kinase; IRS: INSR substrate; MEK: mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase; mTOR: mammalian target of rapamycin; PI3K: Phosphoinositide-3 kinase; PIP2: phosphatidylinositol [4,5]-bisphosphate; PIP3: phosphatidylinositol [3,4, 5]-trisphosphate; PDK1: phosphoinositide-dependent kinase 1; Raf: rapidly fibrosarcoma; Ras: rat sarcoma; Rheb: Ras homolog enriched in brain; TSC: tuberous sclerosis complex.
For both cell populations, activation of MEK-ERK1/2 pathway by thrombopoietin was found to have a critical role in MK differentiation, regulating polyploidy and surface expression of CD34, GPIIb, and GPIb.
The MEK-ERK1/2 pathway also plays a critical role in the generation of proplatelets.
This report demonstrates a critical role of MEK-ERK1/2 pathway in MK differentiation, motility, and proplatelet formation.
The ability of TPO to activate the MEK-ERK1/2 pathway in mature MKs was investigated by Western blotting.
The effect of inhibition of the MEK-ERK1/2 pathway on BM- and FL-derived MK differentiation was investigated using the specific MEK inhibitors, U0126 and PD184161.
The role of MEK-ERK1/2 and p38MAPK pathways in these processes has been investigated.
In this study, the role of MEK-ERK1/2 pathway in the differentiation of BM- and FL-derived MK was investigated using relatively low concentrations of these two structurally distinct MEK inhibitors, UO126 and PD186141.
Inhibition of MEK-ERK1/2 pathway is sufficient to induce an increase of expression of the immature marker CD34 and a decrease in the late MK commitment marker, GPIb, without affecting expression of the early megakaryocytic marker GPIIb.
Furthermore, inhibition of the MEK-ERK1/2 pathway causes a leftward shift of the ploidy of the cells, showing a critical requirement of MEK-ERK1/2 pathway in late stage of MK differentiation.
The role of MEK-ERK1/2 and p38MAPK pathways in the terminal stage of megakaryopoiesis, proplatelet formation, was also investigated.
The present study also demonstrates that MEK-ERK1/2 pathway, but not p38MAPK, is required for proplatelet generation.
In summary, we provide evidence for the critical role of the MEK-ERK1/2 pathway, but not p38MAPK, in MK differentiation, migration, and proplatelet formation, and describe several differences in the behavior of the two primary MK populations from BM and FL.
Mutations in BRAF lead to constitutive activation of downstream signaling of the RAS-RAF-MEK-ERK (mitogen-activated protein kinase) signal transduction pathway in 40-60% of cutaneous melanoma with substitution of glutamic acid for valine at codon 600 in 90% of the BRAF-mutated melanoma [
The downstream signaling pathways of EGFR include the RAS/RAF/MEK/ERK and PI3K/AKT/mTOR pathways.
To directly confirm the correlation between the MEK/ERK pathway and MMP-1 and MMP-9 expression, MCF7 cells were transfected with CA-MEK.
HRG-induced MMP-1 and MMP-9 expression was regulated by MEK/ERK dependent pathway but not by PI-3K/Akt pathway in MCF7 cells.
HRG-induced MMP-1 and MMP-9 expression of HER2-overexpressed MCF7 cells was also regulated by MEK/ERK dependent pathway.
PAK1 is important for Raf/MEK activation, leading to ERK activation.
To verify whether constitutive activation of the PI3K/AKT and MAPK/ERK signaling pathways is the MET-mediated cascade that confers an acquired lapatinib resistance, we investigated the effects of selected kinase inhibitors, including lapatinib, NVP-BEZ235 (PI3K/mTOR inhibitor), selumetinib (MEK inhibitor), saracatinib (SRC inhibitor) and crizotinib (MET inhibitor), on the growth of SNU216-LR cells.
PTEN also negatively regulates mitogen extracellular signal-regulated kinase (MEK)/ERK (MAPK) signaling via inhibiting the activity of Shc and IRS phosphorylation.
These findings suggest that there are signaling pathways independent of the PTEN/PI3K/AKT and RAS/RAF/MEK/ERK pathways, such as the ubiquitin-protease pathway, that regulate FAS expression (
The phosphorylation levels of mitogen-activated protein kinase/extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (MEK1/2), c-Jun N-terminal kinase 1/2 (JNK1/2), extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (ERK1/2) and p38 in atrial tissue were measured using western blotting.
The phosphorylation levels of MEK1/2, ERK1/2, JNK1/2 and p38 in the AF group were significantly higher than those in the SR group (P<0.05).
It was observed that the phosphorylation levels of MEK1/2, ERK1/2, p38 and JNK1/2 were significantly increased in the AF group compared with those in the SR group (
Top, representative western blot analysis showing the phosphorylation (P) and total protein expression of MAPK/extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (MEK1/2), extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (ERK1/2), c-Jun N-terminal kinase 1/2 (JNK1/2) and p38.
Bottom, quantitative results of the MEK1/2, ERK1/2, JNK1/2 and p38 phosphorylation levels in patients with rheumatic heart disease with sinus rhythm (SR) and AF, respectively.
The activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) by mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK)/ERK (MEK) through phosphorylation is an important step in signal transduction for cell processes that transfer chemical signals from the cell surface to the nucleus (
It has been suggested that the MEK/ERK signaling pathway participates in the inflammatory reaction and the process of triggering the negative factors of SCI (
We propose that the MEK/ERK signaling pathways may be involved in the formation of glial scars.
Hsp90 may be involved in the proliferation and apoptosis of tumor cells via the PI3K-AKT/PKB and RAS-RAF-MEK-ERK1/2 pathways (
reported two studies whereby IGF-1 promoted the proliferation of OPCs via PI3K/Akt, MEK/ERK, and src-like tyrosine kinase pathways [

('LMO2', 'RUNX1', 'increases')
Using ChIP-Seq analysis of 10 transcription factors in the hematopoietic progenitor cell line HPC7, we have shown previously that combinatorial interactions between a heptad of TFs (SCL, LYL1, LMO2, GATA2, RUNX1, ERG, and FLI-1) were overrepresented in the loci of genes specifically expressed in HSPCs and therefore associated with gene sets specifically expressed in HSCs 

('MYC', 'MAX', 'increases')
Since the MYC/MAX transcriptional complex regulates transcription, at least in part, by influencing the local chromatin structure at promoters (Adhikary & Eilers, 

('EPH', 'EPHR', 'binds')
TI=(HRPT2 OR HYPERNEPHROMA* OR IDARUBICIN OR IFOS*AMIDE* OR IMATINIB OR INSULINOMA* OR INTRATUMOR* OR IRESSA* OR IRINOTECAN OR (IRRADIATION AND FRACTIONATED) OR JUN OR LETROZOLE OR LEUKEM* OR LI FRAUMENI OR LYMPHOMA* OR MALIGNANC* OR MALIGNANT OR MAMMOGRA* OR MASTECTOM* OR MEDULLOBLASTOMA* OR MELANOMA* OR MELPHALAN* OR MENINGIOMA* OR MESOTHELIOMA* OR METASTAS* OR METASTAT* OR METHYLGUANINE OR MLH1 OR MLL OR MSH OR MSH2 OR MUC1 OR MYB OR (MYC NOT (C OR N)) OR MYELODYSPLAS* OR MYELOMA* OR NEOPLAS* OR NEPHROBLASTOMA* OR NEPHROMA* OR NEURINOMA* OR NEUROBLASTOMA* OR NEUROMA*)
TI=(MICROPREMIE* OR MOTHERS MILK OR MYELOMENINGOCELE* OR NEONAT* OR NEURAL TUBE DEFECT* OR (NEUROBLASTOMA* NOT CELL*) OR (NEPHROBLASTOMA NOT ADULT*) OR NEURODEVELOPMENT* OR NEWBORN* OR NONIMMUNE HYDROPS OR (OSTEOSARCOMA* NOT (ADULT* OR CELL*)) OR PEDIATR* OR PERINATAL* OR PRADER OR PRENATAL* OR PRESCHOOL OR PRETERM OR PREMATURITY OR PUBERTAL OR PUBERTY OR RETT OR (RHABDOMYOSARCOMA* NOT CELL*) OR (SACROCOCCYGEAL NOT ADULT*) OR SCHOOLCHILDREN OR TODDLERS OR (WILMS NOT ADULT*) OR X LINKED)
AD=(ENDOCRIN* OR INFECT OR MED-* OR DERMATOL* OR GASTRO* OR TOXI*OL OR NIH OR BIOSTAT OR AN*ESTHE* OR THERAP* OR HOP-* OR UROL OR KLIN* OR NEPHROL* OR INSERM* OR PREVENT OR OPHTHALMOL OR BIOSCI OR METAB OR ORTHOP*ED OR GENOM* OR TRANSPLANT* OR REPROD OR ORAL OR DIAGNOST OR RH*UMATOL OR BRAIN OR KAROLINSKA* OR VIROL OR DRUG* OR DIABET* OR VASC OR WOMEN* OR CRIT OR VET-* OR NCI OR PULM* OR CHU-* OR OTOLARYNGOL OR HEART)

